        Why I Totally Oppose Al Gore as Candidate for  
         Vice-President of United States of America

1.) Term Limits for Congress:
     May 22, 1991, voted against an amendment to limit Senators to two 
     consecutive terms if they fund their campaigns with tax dollars. 

2.) Using Taxes To Promote Abortion:
     July 16, 1991, voted against a bill to prohibit tax-funded family-
     planning clinics from promoting abortion.

3.) Abstinence-Based Sex Education:
     September 12, 1991, voted against an amendment to transfer $10 million 
     from surveys on adult sexual behavior to the abstinence-based Adolescent 
     Family Life Program, thus voting against abstinence-based sex education.

4.) Taxpayer Funding of Pornography:
     September 19, 1991, voted against an amendment prohibiting the National 
     Endowment for the Arts from spending taxpayers funds on pornographic art. 
     Fortunately, amendment passed 68-28.

5.) School Prayer:
     January 23, 1992,  voted against amendment to state the sense for the 
     Senate that the Supreme Court should reverse its decisions prohibiting 
     voluntary prayer and Bible reading in public schools.  

6.) Freedom of Choice In Education:
     January 23, 1992, voted against an amendment to provide low-income parents 
     with money to enroll their children at the public or private school of 
     their choice, including religious schools, thus giving parents a choice 
     as to where to send their children to school.

7.) Line--Item Veto:
     February 27, 1992, voted against an amendment which would give the 
     President line-item veto authority.  With this ability, the President 
     could veto such items as pay raises, ridiculous regulations designed 
     to increase budget spending,  and other items that get tacked on at 
     the end of a bill.  Incidentally 47 of  our 50 states now have such 
     authority.

8.) Taxes:
     March 13, 1992,  Gore voted for an amendment which had it passed, would 
     have been a motion to permit consideration to require 3/5 vote of the 
     Senate to raise taxes but to let a simple majority cut taxes.  Motion 
     was fortunately rejected 37-58. 

9.) Balanced Budget Amendment:
     April 9, 1992,  he voted against a motion to state the sense of the 
     Senate that it should adopt by June 5 a joint resolution proposing 
     a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution. Motion passed 63-32.

10.) Environment Issues (what's termed as his speciality):
     Al Gore has pushed environment issues to the point of absurdity, fraud, 
     and deceit.  He states and makes claims which lack proof, are based on  
     accusations of findings, misinterpretations, and glory reporting.  For 
     every issue that you find he stands by with "firm" conviction stating 
     that he speaks and knows "the facts to be...", you can also find an equal 
     or greater source which contradicts his entire scope and basis for argument.  
     I do not think any one man can be so sure of an issue(s) which clearly has 
     so many unanswered questions, variables, and contradictions. 

     In fact, NASA has come forth recently stating that their findings 
     concerning ozone depletion (from which ALL current information concerning 
     ozone levels was derived from a report released by NASA), was taken out 
     of context, claiming the media misunderstood and/or misinterpreted the 
     reports.  This recent information brought forth by NASA stating the need
     for the public to know and understand the truth came about following an 
     article released by Time magazine which, according to NASA, was the point 
     at which they knew they must inform the public correctly.  NASA reported 
     that what we refer to as ozone "depletion" is not depletion at all...
     rather ozone has been found to act seasonally.  The NASA reports released 
     were misinterpreted suggesting that depletion was occuring.  NASA stated 
     that it did not correct these misinterpretations immediately because they 
     offered no threat, only a misunderstanding brought on by the medias own
     ignorance and perceived as dangerous by the media.  However, with all the 
     press on doom and gloom, they felt compelled to come forth and try to 
     straighten out the situation following the release of the Time issue which 
     featured a cover depicting an ozone hole on fire.  (Their rebuke can be 
     found in Insight Magazine). How then, according to Al Gore, can there 
     positively be a hole in the ozone over Kenney Bunkport, Maine (funny how
     coincidental that this is where George Bush's retreat is) when in fact it 
     was after these statements and the release of Al Gore's book,  that NASA 
     came forth to confirm otherwise, that there is no depletion, and that their 
     findings only show ozone to be seasonal. 
     
     For more information on how ecology and environment deceit plays a role 
     in political platforms, I suggest you read Al Gore's book, then compare 
     it to Dixie Lee Ray's book entitled "Trashing The Planet". (Ray is former 
     governor of Washington, chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, assistant 
     secretary of state in the U.S. Bureau of Oceans, and long-time member of 
     the Zoology faculty of the University of Washington.)  The comparison will 
     be interesting even if you don't agree with me. ...but you will.

     I present this evidence to show that Al Gore is not change, but rather
     damaging to the beliefs of the majority of Americans, the needs for our
     country, and the rights of individuals to hold on to the freedoms we so 
     dearly cherish, and to further give evidence that this election, although
     construde by many as a chance for change, is really about much more.  We
     must find a way to inform the people so that we can return to the type of
     government we now must envision.  As Ross Perot said simply, "Our choices 
     should be Heads you win, or Tails you win".  Unfortunately, I find myself 
     defending a candidate I too am unhappy with, but trying to point out the 
     absolute absurdity in thinking we have an opportunity for change.  We don't! 
     So please consider the issues, and vote not about change, but for what is 
     best. Change is not always good.  It is my hope that this may serve as a 
     prime example.
     
     
