***** Reformatted.  Please distribute.



           CLINTON/GORE ON ARMS CONTROL


The end of the Cold War leaves two great tasks for
American arms control policy:  to halt the spread
of nuclear, chemical, biological and missile
technologies to countries that do not have them;
and to turn the legacy of the Cold War into
effective strategy for the post-Cold War era.


The Clinton/Gore Plan

Stop nuclear proliferation

*    Bolster the International Atomic Energy
     Agency's capacity to inspect suspect
     facilities through surprise inspections in
     member countries.

*    Lead a strong international effort to impose
     sanctions against companies or countries that
     spread dangerous weapons.

*    Demand that other nations tighten their export
     laws and strengthen enforcement of policies
     regarding nuclear weapons.

*    Never again subsidize the nuclear ambitions of
     a Saddam Hussein.

*    Ensure that agricultural and other non-
     military loans to foreign governments are used
     as intended.

*    Strengthen safeguards to ensure that key
     nuclear technology and equipment are kept out
     of dictators' grasp.

*    Ratify the START Treaty and the follow-on
     agreement of June, 1992.

Pursue and strengthen international agreements

*    Make non-proliferation the highest priority of
     our intelligence agencies.

*    Press more nations to sigh and abide by the
     Missile Technology Control Regime.

*    Conclude a chemical weapons convention banning
     the production, stockpiling, or use of
     chemical weapons.

*    Lead the effort to achieve a Comprehensive
     Test Ban Treaty through a phased approach.

Nuclear weapons plans for the 21st century

*    Maintain a survivable nuclear deterrent,
     consistent with our needs in the post-Cold War
     era.

*    Develop effective defenses to protect our
     troops from short and medium range missiles.

*    Support research on limited missile defense
     systems to protect the U.S. against new long-
     range missile threats.

*    Conduct all such activities in strict
     compliance with the Anti-Ballistic Missile
     (ABM) Treaty.

The Record

*    Al Gore has gained an international reputation
     as an innovative and hard working expert on
     arms control issues.

*    Advocated sharp reductions in weapons and
     shift from destabilizing land-based multiple-
     warhead missiles to single warhead missiles -
     now core objectives of the American
     negotiating position.

*    Wrote legislation to stop proliferation of
     ballistic missiles capable of delivering
     nuclear weapons, and is advocating new
     legislation to block the spread of chemical,
     biological and nuclear weapons to Iraq.

*    Resisted weakening of the ABM treaty and
     worked to keep SDI form violating from U.S.
     obligations.

*    Fought efforts to scrap SALT II limits and
     preserved them as the foundations for START.

*    Favored a ban on short-time of flight or
     depresses trajectory missiles - a year before
     US negotiators adopted the position.

*    Advocated special treatment for nuclear armed
     sea-launched cruise missiles because of their
     unusual nature.

*    Monitored Geneva arms control talks as one of
     ten Senate observers.
