   PENTAGON BIOWARFARE RESEARCH CONDUCTED IN UNIVERSITY LABORATORIES

          Overshadowed by Star Wars and overlooked by the media, the push
     toward biowarfare has been one of the Reagan administration's best
     kept secrets. The research budget for infectious diseases and toxins
     has increased tenfold since fiscal '81 and most of the '86 budget of
     $42 million went to 24 U.S. university campuses where the world's most
     deadly organisms are being cultured in campus labs.
          The amount of military money available for biotechnology research
     is a powerful attraction for scientists whose civilian funding
     resources dried up. Scientists formerly working on widespread killers
     like cancer now use their talents developing strains of such rare
     pathogens as anthrax, dengue, Rift Valley fever, Japanes encephalitis,
     tularemia, shigella, botulin, Q fever, and mycotoxins.
          Many members of the academic community find the trend alarming,
     but when MIT's biology department voted to refuse Pentagon funds for
     biotech research, the administration forced it to reverse its
     decision. And, in 1987, the University of Wisconsin hired Philip
     Sobocinski, a retired Army colonel, to help professors tailor their
     research to attract Pentagon-funded biowarfare research to the school.
     Richard Jannaccio, a former science writer at UW, was dismissed from
     his job on August 25, 1987, the day after the student newspaper, THE
     DAILY CARDINAL, published his story disclosing the details of Colonel
     Sobicinski's mission at the University.
          Since the U.S. is a signatory to the 1972 Biological and Toxic
     Weapons Convention which bans "development, production, stockpiling
     and use of microbes or their poisonous products except in amounts
     necessary for protective and peaceful research," the university-based
     work is being pursued under the guise of defensive projects aimed at
     developing vaccines and protective gear. Scientists who oppose the
     program insist that germ-warfare defense is clearly impractical; every
     person would have to be vaccinated for every known harmful biological
     agent.  Since vaccinating the entire population would be virtually
     impossible, the only application of a defensive development is in
     conjunction with offensive use. Troops could be effectively vaccinated
     for a single agent prior to launching an attack with that agent.
     Colonel David Huxsoll, commander of the U.S. Army Medical Research
     Institute of Infectious Diseases admits that offensive research is
     indistinguishable from defensive research even for those doing it.
          Each of the sources for this synopsis raised ethical questions
     about the perversion of academia by military money and about the U.S.
     engaging in a biological arms race that could rival the nuclear
     threat, yet none mentioned the safety or the security of the labs
     involved.  The failure to investigate this aspect of the issue is a
     striking omission.  Release of pathogens, either by accident or
     design, would prove tragic at any of the following schools:  Brigham
     Young, California Institute of Technology, Colorado State University,
     Emory, Illinois Institute of Technology, Iowa University, M.I.T.,
     Purdue, State University of N.Y. at Albany, Texas A&M, and the
     Universities of California, California at Davis, Cincinnati,
     Connecticut, Georgia, Idaho, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland,
     Massachusetts, Minnesota, North Carolina, and Utah.

          SOURCES: ISTHMUS, 10/9/87, "Biowarfare and the UW,"  by Richard
     Jannaccio, pp 1, 9, 10; THE PROGRESSIVE, 11/16/87, "Poisons from the
     Pentagon," by Seth Shulman, pp 16-20; WALL STREET JOURNAL, 9/17/86,
     "Military Science," by Bill Richards and Tim Carrington, pp 1, 23.
