The following is a collection of quotes by BLACK Americans:

ROBERT C. MAYNARD (black, syndicated columnist)

"The underclass is a lawless, illiterate minority with zero
regard for the common decencies of those more fortunate than
they.  (It is categorized by) masses of illiterate, untrained
youth on the streets with abundant access to drugs and guns.
(This is) our nation's future.  Unless we begin to re-channel
the energies and reshape the values of the youth of that
underclass, none of us is safe.  The burgeoning underclass is
the social dynamite that threatens the stability of the entire
society."

...

WILLIAM HOUGH (black, retired Army sergeant)

"We have been accusing whites of the very same offense for years.
No there is no other ethnic group in America that seems more 
prejudiced than us blacks.  And it is virtually destroying us as
a race.  The black media, the black leaders and our parents must
share in the blame for this.  What started out as black pride
eventually turned into black racism.  How can we see racism and
prejudice in other races but fail to recognize it among ourselves?

We are constantly bombarded with negativism by our black press. For
instance, we are fed depressing information about this wicked, one-
sided society that we live in and that our chance of making it is
almost nil.

We hear this same kind of negativism from family, friends, and 
neighbors.  No wonder so many young blacks are turned off.  We end
up with an embittered and confused individual.

Black Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, when he was chairman
of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, charged that black 
leaders 'are sitting there watching the destruction of our race 
while they bitch, bitch, bitch about Ronald Reagan.  Ronald Reagan 
isn't the problem.  Jimmy Carter was not the problem.  The lack of
black leadership is the problem."

...

WALTER WILLIAMS (black professor at George Mason University)

"Civil rights organizations, once part of a proud struggle, have
now squandered their moral authority.  They are little more than
race hustlers championing a racial spoils system.  They no longer
seek fair play and a color blind society.  Their agenda is one of
rights, where quota is king and colorblindness is viewed with
contempt.  Today's civil rights organizations differ only in degree
,but not in kind, from white racist organizations past and present."

...

SHELBY STEELE (a black professor)

"A generation after the Watts riot and the passage of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, it is time for blacks to drop the crutch of
racial victimization and rely on their own efforts to gain access
to the American mainstream."

"The opportunities are there.  Blacks have only to stop hiding
behind racism and take advantage of them.  While racism still exists,
it is not what is holding back America's black people.  Instead, the
specter of racism has become a crippling fixation of blacks, a way 
not just to excuse failure but to avoid dealing with real problems.
Victimization views white people as omnipotent.  It is as though
white people are in charge of our fate rather than ourselves.  The
sense of victimization has led blacks to rely on programs like 
affirmative action that both stem from and perpetuate their sense
of being victims."

"The insistence on black victimization and white guilt sets in motion
a never-ending and ultimately futile, inter-racial battle . . . that
leaves us with an identity (as a victim) that is at war with our best
interests, that magnifies our oppression and diminishes our sense of
possibility."

"It did blacks no good to ignore their real fears and blame racism
for all their failings.  Blacks have tremendous possibilities, but
if you think you're up against a white racism and your just a total
victim of it, then you can't do anything except be mad."
