***** Reformatted.  Please distribute.



      CLINTON/GORE ON CAMPAIGN FINANCE REFORM


American politics is held hostage by big money
interests.  Members of Congress now collect more
than $2.5 million in campaign funds every week
while Political Action Committees, industry
lobbies, and cliques of $100,000 donors buy access
to Congress and the White House.

George Bush recently vetoed the 1992 Campaign
Finance Reform Bill in order to protect the special
interest that support him.  American pay for this
system in decreased environmental and worker safety
regulations, increased health care costs, and
weakened consumer regulations.

Bill Clinton and Al Gore believe it's long past
time to clean up Washington.  As part of their plan
to fight the cynicism that is gripping the American
people, Bill Clinton and Al gore will support and
sign strong campaign finance reform legislation to
bring down the cost of campaigning and encourage
real competition.

We can't go four more years without a plan to take
away power form the entrenched bureaucracies and
special interests that dominate Washington.


The Clinton/Gore Plan

*    Place voluntary spending caps on House and
     Senate Races, depending on a state's
     population.  These caps will level the playing
     field and encourage challengers to enter the
     race.

*    Limit political action committee (PAC)
     contributions to the $1000 legal limit for
     individuals.

*    Reduce the cost to television air time to
     promote real discussion and turn TV into an
     instrument of education, not a weapon of
     political assassination.

*    Eliminate tax deductions for special interest
     lobbying expenses and the "lawyer' loophole,"
     which allows lawyer-lobbyists to disguise
     lobbying activities on behalf of foreign
     governments and powerful corporations.

*    Require lobbyists who appear before
     Congressional committees to disclose the
     campaign contributions they've made to members
     of those committees.  The public has a right
     to know when moneyed interests are trying
     influence elected officials in Washington.

*    End the unlimited "soft" money contributions
     that are funneled through national, state, and
     local parties to Presidential candidates.


The Record

*    In the face of legislative resistance and
     powerful opposition form special interests,
     Governor Clinton spearheaded a successful
     citizen's initiative to adopt an Ethics and
     Lobbyist Disclosure Act which requires
     professional lobbyists to disclose the amount
     of money they spend to influence public
     officials, and public officials to disclose
     information about their income and financial
     holdings.

*    Senator Gore voted for the Senate Elections
     Ethics Act which establishes spending limits
     on Senate campaigns, prohibits Federal office
     holders and candidates from raising "soft
     money," eliminates "leadership PACs," and
     encourages cleaner campaigns.
