 GW> Ain't sayin' which side I'm on here, but relax a bit -- I noticed the
 GW> phrase "anti-choice" enter the pro-choicers' vocabulary about the same
 GW> time I first heard the term "pro-abortion" used by pro-lifers.  The
 GW> chicken or the egg, it doesn't matter, but in a battle for public
 GW> sentiment, neither side will give up its code words unless the other
 GW> one does first -- sounds like a stand-off to me.


                            CHOICESPEAK:
                THE LANGUAGE TO ABORT THE CONSCIENCE
                     
From where Winston stood, it was just possible to read, picked
out on its face in elegant lettering, the three slogans of the
party:
                WAR IS PEACE
                FREEDOM IS SLAVERY
                IGNORANCE IS STRENGTH
                                1984, by George Orwell

   Language has always been used for deceitful and misleading
   purposes.  Misrepresentations, distortions and outright lying
   have been employed for ulterior motives throughout all of
   recorded history.  And, as man has "progressed," his abuse of
   language has reached new levels of sophistication and
   treachery.

   The abuse of language for devious purposes has been given
   several definitions over time.  The term "doublespeak" (or
   "doubletalk") refers to language which APPEARS to be
   meaningful, but is actually a mixture of sense and nonsense.
   George Orwell, in his famous novel *1984*, coined the word
   "Newspeak," denoting a propagandistic language marked by
   ambiguity and contradictions.  Its stated purpose: to
   "diminish the range of thought."

   Never has language-for-propaganda been more cleverly or
   effectively used, however, than by our contemporary
   pro-abortionists.  To as great an extent as possible, abortion
   advocates have conceptualized and debated abortion without
   mention of, or attention to, the act itself.  For the last
   twenty years, they have strived to redefine child-killing as a
   "choice."  Sadly, their endeavor has met with great success.
   One commonly hears, for instance: "Whose CHOICE is it, who
   decides?"  "This fight is for reproductive CHOICE."
   "Pro-lifers are the anti-CHOICE minority."  "Pro-CHOICE is not
   pro-abortion."  "The issue is not abortion, the issue is
   CHOICE."  And even in the "neutral" media: "Anti-abortion
   demonstrators squared off with pro-CHOICE activists."

   Given the spread, like so many cancer cells, of such
   pro-abortion euphemisms throughout our language, it is clear
   that a new term is necessary to definitively characterize the
   pro-abortionists' misleading use of words for propaganda
   purposes.  The term I propose to serve this purpose is
   "Choicespeak," which I define as "propagandistic language
   marked by ambiguity and contradictions DESIGNED TO INCREASE
   ACCEPTANCE OF THE ANTI-LIFE MENTALITY."

   Specific examples of Choicespeak are not at all hard to find.
   A preborn baby becomes, via Choicespeak, the "product of
   conception."  The scientific fact that a human being's
   biological life begins at fertilization (conception) becomes,
   via Choicespeak, a "religious view."  The killing of a CHILD
   becomes, via Choicespeak, the "termination of a PREGNANCY."
   (In terms of intent and effect, abortion and childbirth should
   be contrasted as follows: CHILDBIRTH is the termination of a
   PREGNANCY; ABORTION is the "termination" of a CHILD.)  And,
   last but not least, abortion --- the killing of an innocent
   preborn baby --- becomes, via Choicespeak, a valid "choice"
   that a woman may consider.

   Words can be used as weapons so long as there is a target.  In
   abortion, the targets are easy prey.  Simply put, the abortion
   industry has wielded its powerfully deceptive words against
   vulnerable mothers and the innocent children within their
   wombs.  Women are exploited; their babies destroyed; men are
   alienated.  And the family, the very foundation of society, is
   assaulted at its core.

   Therefore, the Choicespeaking zealots must be exposed; their
   NON-truths must be replaced by THE truth.  To do this, one
   must be alert when exposed to pro-abortion rhetoric and
   anti-life logic.  Probe beyond the surface and ascertain the
   underlying principles; uncover the real meaning behind the
   alluring message.  Otherwise, the abortion seducing "Big
   Brother" may very well distort YOUR perception and diminish
   YOUR "range of thought," increasing your acceptance of and
   tolerance for abortion -- a truly unthinkable crime.

                Woe to those who call evil good,
                  and good evil,
                who change the darkness into light,
                  and light into darkness,
                who change bitter into sweet,
                  and sweet into bitter!  (Isaiah 5:20)

---------------------------------------------------------------
documentation provided by SCMIS

David on the Beach in Arizona



... To let live is to live yourself!
--- Blue Wave/TG v2.00 [NR]
 * Origin: The Arizona Badlands BBS Casa Grande AZ 6028368336 (85:823/126.0)
