				Animal's Getted Treated 
				 Like Trash All Over 
				     The World

  I wrote this because something pissed me off. Right to life protestors are
not truly that. They think only a bunch of sells is life. But when it comes
to other life they don't say anything about it. They just speak about right
to life for some cells.

  The person that wrote that article on abortions and put in that animal get better 
treatment is obviously a person that has not kept up with life.

  Comparing Unborn cell matter to live animals is like comparing water and land.
Live animals are used in experiments everyday. 

  Since the ruling that dogs cannot be used in experiments about 12 years ago,
about 2 million live dogs are saved every year. Not counting the millions that
get destroyed in pounds every single year. Not counting the ones that are 
killed by cars and all that "Nice stuff." Why don't these right to life protestors
say anything about that??? Dogs have the right for a normal existance like
we Human beings.

  Elephants are one example of animals that get treated like garbage. These animals
are intelligent and very carismatic. They love like we do, and feel. But they 
have a major problem, they look different and they have a valuble ivory tusks. So
since they have these tusks they are hunted. Once there were 10 million but now only
700,000 roam in Africa. Because of man's hatred of animals these wonderful beings
are being slaugtered. Why don't these right to life protestors right about this???

  Arctic Seals are our favorite coat animal. Why? because we think since they 
are defensless we can kill them and take their so we can walk around looking pretty.
There were once millions, since because of brutal hunting these numbers have declined to
thousands. Why? because shmucks like these fetus protestors say that these
animals are not important to "USE." Why should they be. Since the laws that passed 
to protect them the population has grown.

  Gorillas are our closest relative on this planet. But because of man's stupidity
these animals were almost wiped out because of how they look and myths. The sickness 
is so wide spread. Example some had there heads and arms chopped off for collection 
purposes. And these were live Gorrilas. Not a fetus gorilla.

  In closing animals don't have it easy. They get hunted, killed and mutilated 
because they are not human beings. I have only metioned a little bit while there is 
so much else.  The person that wrote that article deadbaby.txt is quite stupid 
if he or she thinks animals get it easy. Don't compare there lives to the lives
of human beings. Remember there are 6 billion human beings on this planet while 
ony 800 million animal types. You judge who has the most. And another thing, you
can kill a million cats or dogs and get fined only for the property you have destroyed
but when you kill a human being you get sent up the river and fed for a certain
amount of time.

