
                  101 USES FOR A DEAD (or live) BABY
                        by Olga Fairfax, Ph.D

.    When I saw the first ad on TV advertising collagen-enriched
cosmetics I was speechless.  We'll be apologizing to Hitler, I
thought; at least he didn't kill for money!
.    Collagen is the gelatinous substance found in connective tissue,
bone and cartilage.  Nick Thimmesch's syndicated column, "Our Grisly
Human Fetal Industry" documents that amniotic fluid and collagen can
come from fetal material, since the Food and Drug Administration does
not require pretesting or the identification of cosmetic ingredients.
.    A glance through a local drug store revealed that the leading 12
shampoos and five hand creams all contained collagen.
.    Check your beauty products and you may be shocked!  Unless your
beauty product specifies animal collagen or bovine collagen, the
product probably contains human collagen.  The drug company should be
challenged at once.  Even collagen taken from a human placenta raises
questions about respect of life and ownership of the placenta.
.    A letter from Mary Kay Cosmetics emphasizes that their collagen
all comes from animals.  A similar letter from Hask has also been
received.
.    Since there are 1.5 million abortions every year, there is an
abundant source of fetuses for commercial use.
.    There's triple profit to be had.  The first is from the abortion
(estimated at a half billion dollars a year by Fortune magazine).  The
second profit comes from the sale of aborted babies' bodies.  The
third profit is from unsuspecting customers buying cosmetics.
.    Babies' bodies are sold by the bag, $25 a batch or up to $5500 a
pound.  The sale of later-term elective abortions at D.C. General
Hospital brought $68,000 between 1966 and 1976.  The money was used to
buy a TV set and cookies and soft drinks for visiting professors.
Personally, I hope that they choked on the Kool-Aid!
.    Call your local abortuary and hospital and ask them some pointed
questions about the disposal and possible sale of fetuses.  Would an
abortionist who kills a baby think twice about selling its body?  One
prenatal killer said, "A baby is becoming property.  We kill, keep or
sell the property."
.    In the Pittsburgh Women's Health Service there's a sign in the
lab areas asking doctors not to carry dead fetuses without wrapping
them since it disturbs the patients.

                          Treated like trash

.    What have abortuaries done with fetuses in the past before they
realized that they could make another profit out of them?
.    Well, "Richmond's shame" marked a new low in disposal of wastes.
An abortion center there filled a long bin on the rear of its property
with the remains of its day's nefarious doings.  Its trash compactor
neatly mashed 100 babies' bodies which were then tied up in plastic
bags and thrown on top of the bin.
.    "The hungry dogs came along and dragged the bags away.  There
were frequent fights and the contents of the bags would be strewn up
and down the streets until the dogs separated the gauze, sponges and
pads and devoured the placenta, bones and flesh of the babies." said a
mother.
.    She went to the police, health department and city hall and felt
that she got nowhere: but the bags, of warm human babies' mutilated
parts disappeared from the streets even though the clinic increased
its abortions from 25 to 150 a week.  They've since moved to larger
quarters.
.    The Jacksonville, Florida, Womens' Center for Reproductive
Health, which is run and owned by the Clergy Consultation Service,
advertises "celebrating a decade of service."

                         Nothing to Celebrate

.    What they don't advertise is that they leave aborted babies out
for the trash pickup.  Rev. Marvin Lutz, the director explained that
the practice of leaving the remains out was perfectly legal and
approved by the "good housekeeping" Judases, the National Abortion
Federation and the Florida Abortion Council.
.    Dr. Jeronimo Dominguez of New York wrote that "on any Monday you
can see about 30 garbage bags with fetal material in them along the
sidewalks of several abortion clinics in New York."
.    In Odessa, Texas, city ordinance 69-91 forbids placing a dead
animal in a dumpster.  But that didn't stop one abortionist from
depositing large brown plastic bags full of sock like gauze bags into
the city dumpster prior to closing every night.
.    A Baptist minister opened the bags and to his horror found a
little "perfectly formed hands and feet of a 13-week old baby and the
complete body, in pieces, of a 17-week old baby.  Everything except
one foot was there: the rib cage, sexual organs, head, finger nails
and toe nails."
.    He nearly died of shock.  I nearly did too, reading about it.

                    They Burn Babies, Don't They?

.    Babies used to be burned on the altar to Baal; now they're burned
in furnaces at the sites of their deaths.
.    In Cincinnati, a prenatal killer allowed dense smoke to emanate
from his chimney.  When firemen were called they were told, "They're
burning babies," as if that was routine.
.    One wonders how life saving firemen could continue their
dedication amid such a contradiction!
.    One pro-lifer overheard her children (ages five and seven)
discussing the infamous picture of the babies in the trash can the
first time they saw it.
.    "It's dolls, It has to be dolls," said the kindergartner.  "No,"
said his pre-school sister, "it's babies."  The older child couldn't
believe it.  "It has to be dolls," he insisted.  "Why would anyone
throw away babies?"
.    When their mother explained to them that it was babies, both
children grew very quiet.  Silently they studied the picture and then
recalled the times they had gone on trips to the city dump with the
family.  "Will the rats eat the babies when they take them to the
dump?" the boy asked.

                         Animals Fare Better

.    A wounded American eagle was found in Maryland recently and
rushed to emergency treatment but it was too late.  He died.  A $5000
reward was offered for the arrest of its killer.
.    Similarly, the Izaak Walton League's ethics fund has spent nearly
$60,000 in the last one and one half years to enhance outdoor ethics.
.    It is illegal to ship pregnant lobsters (regardless of which
trimester!) to market.  There's a $1000 fine and a year's jail term as
a penalty.
.    The Massachusetts Supreme Court has ruled that goldfish cannot be
awarded as prizes in games of chance.  This violates the state's anti-
cruelty law to protect the "tendency to dull humanitarian feelings and
corrupt the morals of those who observe them."  This same court upheld
mandatory state funding of abortions!
.    If the human fetus were an animal, its welfare might be entrusted
to the Department of Agriculture or the Fish and Wildlife service
where it would be safer than at the mercy of the Health Department.
The hackles of the SPCA would rise at the physical treatment it
received.

                        The New Laboratory Rat

.    Some researchers insist that the reason they must do research on
human fetuses is because they are human, not animal.
.    In a it-shouldn't-happen to a dog story, 47 senators voted in
1974 to protect dogs from experimentation with poisonous gas but then
voted down Senator Jess Helm's amendment to prevent federal funds from
being used for abortion.  One liberal, pro-abortion Senator gave an
emotion laden speech to protect dogs.  Man's best friend came out
better than man himself!
.    Who is pressing for the "right" to experiment?  No one less than
the nation Institutes of Health.  A stacked national commission gave
them the "right" and this experimentation is funded by you, the
taxpayer!
.    There is another sequel to the erosion of the value of human
life.  Abortion, fetal experimentation, infanticide and euthanasia are
four walls of the same coffin.
.    Even Planned Parenthood's anti-life lawyer Harriet Pilpel was
shocked.  "What mother (sic) would consent to an experiment on her
fetus?" she asked.

                        A Few Choice Examples

.    Some of the more shocking facts that will give you heart
palpitations include:

o The young couple who wanted to conceive a child to be aborted so
that the father to be could use the baby's kidneys for a transplant
that he needed himself.

o In California, babies aborted at six months were submerged in jars
of liquid with high oxygen content to see if they could breathe
through their skins.  They couldn't.

o The hysterotomy aborted fetus in the seventh, eighth and ninth
months is removed intact (translation: the babe is alive).  The trade
in fetal tissue is about $1 million annually.  The high prices may
encourage unnecessary abortions on welfare patients as the surest way
of getting "salable tissue."

o Dr. Robert Schwartz, chief of pediatrics at the Cleveland
Metropolitan Hospital, said that, "After a baby is delivered, while it
is still linked to its mother by the umbilical cord, I take a blood
sample, sever the cord and then as quickly as possible remove the
organs and tissues."

o Magee Women's Hospital in Pittsburgh packed aborted babies in ice
for shipment to experimental labs.

o Newsday reported that an Ohio medical research company tested the
brains and hearts of 100 fetuses as part of a $300,000 pesticide
contract.

                      The Modern Scalp Display?

o Human embryos and other organs have been encased in plastic and sold
as paperweight novelty items.

o The Diabetes Treatment Project at UCLA depends for its existence on
the availability of pancreases from later term aborted fetuses.

o A rabies vaccine is produced from viruses grown in the lungs of
aborted children, according to FDA.  A polio vaccine was also grown
with cells from aborted kids.

o Brain cells would be "harvested" from aborted babies for transplant.

o Tissue cultures are obtained by dropping still living babies into
meat grinders and homogenizing them, according to the prestigious New
England Journal of Medicine.

o The Village Voice reported estimates seven years ago that 20,000 to
100,000 fetuses are sold to drug companies each year in the U.S.

o A $6000,000 grant from H.I.H. enabled one baby (among many others in
the experiment done in Finland to be sliced open without an anesthetic
so that a liver could be obtained.  The researcher in charge said that
the baby was complete and "was even secreting urine."  He disclaimed
the need for anesthetic, saying an aborted baby is just garbage."

                           Don't tell God!

o A study on the severed heads of 12 babies delivered by C-section who
were kept alive for months.

o Even the baby's placenta is sold for 50 cents to drug companies.
Ever heard of Placenta Plus shampoo?

.    And the atrocities go on.  Will the unborn be regarded as handy
little organ sources?  Will our preborn brothers and sisters become a
source of spare body parts?
.    Listen to the newscasters - they are already pleading nationwide
for organs.  It's enough to make you tear up your organ donor card! 
At least adults can consent to being inventorized like a body shop's
spare parts department but Little Bugger cannot!
.    After reading that aborted babies' fat is being used to make soap
in England and the fact that the former head of the federal Centers
for Disease Control abortion surveillance branch proposed that
abortions should be charged for by the length of the baby's foot, are
we surprised that babies are treated this way in the Year of the Child
or the Year of the Disabled?
.    After reading the above, if your heart is still beating, run,
don't walk, to your nearest prayer closet and start praying!

.    SYSOP's note: Everything you have just read is quite true.  Dr.
Fairfax has documentation and clippings to support every point made in
this article.  You may obtain a copy from her - Please send a donation
with your request for the 10 pages to Dr. Olga Fairfax, 12105
Livingston St., Weaton, MD 20902.  Olga Fairfax, Ph.D is director of
Methodist United for Life.

.    This article was transcribed from the Christian Contender Vol. 1,
No.3, April 1984 by Anton Johnson.  They reprinted it by permission of
A.L.L. About Issues Magazine, P.O. Box 490 Stafford, Va. 22554.

Computers for Christ - Chicago
                                                            