

                               EXECUTIVE ORDERS

               Let's  eyeball  the  executive  branch  of the national
          government.  This will  be a  beauty!   Caesar is  alive and
          well in Washington, D.C.  You better believe it.
               Earlier    mention  was  made of executive orders.  Our
          research  shows  the  first  use  of  these  orders  was  by
          President George  Washington for household expenses.  It was
          an order signed by  him for  normal expenses  which would be
          accepted  by  the  Treasury  Department  and  paid.   Simple
          enough. 
               The Federal Bureau of  Investigation  was  formed under
          an executive order by Teddy Roosevelt on July 26, 1908.
               The first  time it  was used to make a law was in  1916
          by President Woodrow   Wilson.      It  was  said  to  be an
          'emergency' measure  and Congress was encouraged to validate
          it.  They did.
               The door was now open to ignore the Constitution. 
               This is the same  method used  by Franklin Roosevelt in
          1933 to close all  the banks  in the  country.  Remember our
          gold?   Americans were ordered to turn in all  their gold to
          local banks.  AFTER this was done, King  Roosevelt, by exec-
          utive  order,  raised  the  value  of  an ounce of gold from
          $20.00 to $35.00!  Guess who that benefitted?  International
          bankers and  central banks  around the world . . that's who.
          Americans who turned in their gold were royally screwed.
               What are the duties of the  executive branch?   To make
          laws or to see that they are faithfully executed? 
               Nothing in our  Constitution  allows  the  president to
          pass a  law or  make a  law under any circumstances.  Nor is
          there any  suggestion that  the Congress  can delegate their
          lawmaking authority to the executive branch, emergency or no
          emergency!
               Yet they have  done  it  and  they  continue  to  do it
          without any permission in the Constitution or any amendment.
          How do they ignore their  oath  to  uphold  and  support the
          Constitution?  Why not ask them?
               Let's explore their law making activities . . . govern-
          ment uses  a publication  called the  Federal Register where
          all regulations are published  daily.   (Regulations?  Where
          the hell  did that  come from?)  This publication amounts to
          more than 70,000 pages a year.  Here is where  the executive
          orders are published. 
               When they appear, they remain in limbo for  30 days and
          the Congress or any  citizen  can  write  and  object to it.
          70,000 pages  a year  would take a full-time staff member of
          each member  of  the  Congress  to  watch  and  study  these
          'regulations'.  Congress pays no  attention to  the  Federal
          Register.
                At the end of the  required  thirty  days,  all  these
          regulations become 'law'  and have  the full  effect of law!
          There are occasions where  these  are  challenged  in courts
          when they have affected some individual and a  few have been
          
          overturned.   See how  simple they  have made it?  Write it,
          put it in a federal publication and if no one  says anything
          about it, it mysteriously becomes law.
               All sorts of regulations from  every  division  of  the
          executive branch are published in  the  Federal Register and
          this is where all the goodies are listed.   If you doubt the
          'laws' in the Federal Register have teeth, write the Govern-
          ment Printing Office and request a copy. 
               What happened to the concept that only the Congress can
          make a law?  Did you say it was OK or was there an amendment
          passed by the people allowing this to go on?  
               Now let's look at some of the real dirty work they have
          done with executive orders. .  There are over 12,000 laws of
          this type on the books now.  Congress, when  asked, does not
          even know what they are.  This is our  lawmaking body.  Part
          of the government that is  supposed to  "establish  justice,
          insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defence,
          promote the general welfare and secure the blessings of lib-
          erty" . . . snicker, snicker . . . 
               This one is really scary . . . A blueprint for a dicta-
          torship! 
               Executive Order No. 11921 was  published in the Federal
          Register in June 1976 and  updated since.   This is the mas-
          ter plan for tyranny and the death of our Constitution.
               All the President has  to  do  is  declare  a  national
          emergency and  big brother  will or can take over every form
          of newspaper, radio  and  television  stations.    They will
          confiscate your CB's, weapons, tell you where to live, work,
          how much  food  you  can  have,  establish   rationing   and
          price controls.  In effect, they can declare martial law and
          you will not be able to do anything  about it.   Neither can
          the Congress. 
               Can you imagine a law like this  on  the  books in this
          country?   
               All  they   are  waiting   for  is  a  certain  set  of
          circumstances and someone who wants  to  be  a  dictator and
          away we go.
               If you  haven't heard  or read  about Executive Orders,
          this one especially, let me break the bad news.  It's on the
          books.   
               Most bureaucrats and their  egghead lackeys, when asked
          about this executive order,  will say  it only  concerns the
          orderly control of the country if we have a  nuclear attack.
          This is a cockeyed lie!
               The opening words  of Executive  Order 11921 are blunt:
          "WHEREAS our national security is dependent upon our ability
          to assure continuity of  government, at every  level, in any
          national  emergency  type  situation  that might conceivably
          confront  the  nation;   and   WHEREAS   effective  national
          preparedness planning to meet such an emergency, including a
          massive nuclear attack. . ." 
              Look closely at the words they are using,  "any national
          emergency   .   .   .   including massive nuclear . . . " is
          clear. 
               They can decide what  the emergency  is and it does NOT
          have to be nuclear attack.
               Congressional  investigators  began to  look  into this
          subject and found  470 special statutes which can be invoked
          by the President in  a declared  national emergency.   Where
          the  hell  did  they  find  the  power for him to be able to
          declare a national emergency?  
               Senator Mathias  testified  before  a  House  Judiciary
          committee in 1975:
               "Under the authority  delegated by these  statutes, the
          President may seize property; organize and control the means
          of production; seize  commodities;  assign  military  forces
          abroad; institute martial law; seize and control  all trans-
          portation  and  communication;  regulate  the  operation  of
          private enterprise; restrict travel;  and  in a  plethora of
          particular  ways,  control  the   lives   of   all  American
          citizens."
               This is only the frosting .  . .  Wait until we look at
          the real powers they will have when  they  decide  which day
          will be 'X-Day'.
               How can this be?  From this 1975 testimony, Congress is
          aware of  what can  be done  yet they  do nothing to control
          this power.  Are  they all  part of  this 'mutual admiration
          society' in  the cesspool known as Washington DC?  Most will
          probably tell you "I don't know this, so it must  be false."
          Where did  we go  wrong?   How did they assume this power in
          absolute violation of the  Constitution  and  all  the oaths
          they have taken before they took office?
                        
               What was  it the  President swore?  "That I will faith-
          fully execute the office  of  the  President  of  the United
          States,  and  will  to  the  best  of  my ability, preserve,
          protect and defend the Constitution of the United States." 
                         
               Is  this  preserving,  protecting   and  defending  the
          Constitution?  Is their oath just a  bunch of  words  to  be
          recited when they take office?  If he were going  to do what
          his oath requires, why hasn't a president  told  Congress to
          pass a law abolishing executive orders? 
               Why  hasn't  the  Congress  simply  taken the lawmaking
          ability  away  from  the  president?    Why  hasn't Congress
          assumed  their  duties  as  required  by  the  Constitution? 
          Looks like  we have  allowed things  to get  away from us in
          the last few years, doesn't it?   What  do our  kids have to
          look forward to if we don't stop this horse dung now?
               Let's  take  a  look  at  some  of the powers they will
          assume  if  there  is  "any  national  emergency,  including
          nuclear attack":
                       Part 9-Department of Commerce
             Section 901.  Resume of Responsibilities.  The  Secretary
          of Commerce  shall  prepare  national  emergency  plans  and
          develop preparedness programs covering:
             (1) The production and distribution of all materials, the
          use  of  all  production  facilities (except those owned by,
          
          controlled by,  or under  the jurisdiction of the Department
          of Defense or the Atomic Energy Commission), the  control of
          all construction  materials, and the furnishing of basic in-
          dustrial  services  except  those  otherwise  assigned,  in-
          cluding:
             (a) Production and distribution of  and use of facilities
          for petroleum, solid fuels, gas, electric power and water;
             (b)  Production, processing, distribution, and storage of
          food resources and the use of food  resource  facilities for
          such production, processing, distribution and storage;
             (c)  Domestic  distribution  of  farm  equipment and fer-
          tilizer;
             (d)  Use  of  communications   services  and  facilities,
          housing and lodging facilities, and  health, education,  and
          welfare facilities;
             (e)  Production, and related distribution, of minerals as
          defined  in  Subsection  702(5),  and  source  materials  as
          defined in the Atomic  Energy Act  of 1954,  as amended; and
          the  construction   and  use  of  facilities  designated  as
          within  the  responsibilities  of   the  Secretary   of  the
          Interior;
             (f)  Distribution of items  in  the supply systems of, or
          controlled by, the Department  of  Defense  and  the  Atomic
          Energy Commission;
            (g)   Construction, use, and management of civil  aviation
          facilities; and 
            (h)     Construction,  use  and  management  of  highways,
          streets, and appurtenant structures; and
            (i)  Domestic distribution of health resources.
                         
               Scary?  Unbelievable?   You bet it is.  And  this is on
          the books right now just  waiting for the  moment to declare
          any type of national emergency. 
               Do you believe for a moment that we will still be using
          our computers  with the freedom we enjoy today?  Chuckle . .
               Let's  just  suppose  there  were  several  major  bank
          failures  and  powers  that  be  decided  that they couldn't
          afford any more failures.  A national emergency was called. 
               Under part 17 of the same executive  order,  they  will
          take over the complete supervision of all  banks and banking
          operations . . . To the point  that they  will decide if you
          can take any money out of your account.  They will demand to
          know what you will spend it for  and decide how much you can
          have.   However, if they  do not  have enough  funds to give
          the  full  amount,  they  can  ration  the  funds.   If they
          figure you want your money  to  hoard  it,  they  can simply
          refuse to give it to you.   Cute?
               This  includes  all  banking  facilities, so don't feel
          safe just because your  money is  in a  credit union.   They
          have  everything  covered!    Each check they honor for over
          $1000 will have  to  have  both  sides  photographed  and of
          course,  none   of  these  regulations  will  apply  to  any
          transactions between banks.  Just who does this money belong
          to? 
               Is it still the United States?  Makes you  wonder . . .
               For those  who dabble  in the  stock market, under part
          25 they will assume the power  to close  the market, suspend
          any redemption  rights,   freeze prices of stocks and bonds.
          Then they will allow it  to  reopen  only  when  they decide
          conditions   permit   and  under  their   complete  control.  
          Remember when Roosevelt changed the  value  of  an  ounce of
          gold from $20 to $35?  Who benefitted then?  Not us.
               And for  you readers  who own property and believe that
          property belongs to you, we have a little  surprise.  Not if
          this  executive  order  becomes  effective.   You  will  own
          nothing then.   Here's  what Part  22 of the Executive Order
          has to say about that:
             (9) National industrial reserve and machine tool program.
          Develop plans for the custody of the  Industrial  plants and
          production equipment in the national  industrial reserve and
          assist the Department of Defense, in  collaboration with the
          Department of  Commerce,  in  the  development of  plans and
          procedures for the disposition, emergency reactivation,  and
          utilization of the plants and equipment of  this  reserve in
          the custody of the Administrator.
             (10)  Excess and surplus real and personal property.
          Develop plans and  emergency  operating  procedures  for the
          utilization of excess and surplus real and personal property
          by Federal Government agencies with emergency assignments or
          by State and local governmental units as directed, including
          review of the property holdings of Federal agencies which do
          not possess  emergency  functions  to  determine  the avail-
          ability  of  property  for  emergency use, and including the
          disposal of real and  personal property  and the rehabilita-
          tion of personal property.
               What  do they mean  by excess property?  Will they tell
          you what of  your property  is excess?  Are  these decisions
          meant to punish  people who  had the  foresight  to put away
          coins or  food for  bad times?  If you have been wise enough
          to sock these items away, please don't tell anyone.
               And what  is 'rehabilitation of personal property?'  If
          someone doesn't like the way  you  use  your  property, will
          they  take  it  from  you  and  give  it  to  someone  else?
          Rehabilitation  is  'restoring  to  good  operation  or good
          management'.
               Are these  powers we  granted to the central government
          under the Constitution?   Where  do  they get  the idea that
          they  can  issue  Executive  Orders and decide a certain day
          that the Constitution is dead?
               Did you notice  that the  Department  of  Commerce will
          take over all housing and lodging facilities, does that mean
          your home also?  Maybe it also needs rehabilitation? 
               They will assume control of  all health,  education and
          welfare facilities.   You'd  better believe  it will include
          all schools, public and  private, elementary and  secondary.
          There will be no arguments  about school prayer or momentary
          silence anymore.  The decision will be made for us.
               The implications are staggering.  This  is a  blueprint
          
          for a dictatorship and slavery.   No, I haven't been smoking
          loco weed . . . this is for real.
               Plans  are  all  set "to  assist  civilian  educational
          institutions,  both public and private, to adjust to demands
          laid on them  by a  large expansion of government activities
          during any type  of  emergency.   This  includes advice  and
          assistance to  schools,  colleges,  universities, and  other
          educational institutions whose facilities may be temporarily
          needed for  Federal,  State, or  local  programs in an emer-
          gency."
              Wonder what they mean  by "adjust to  demands  laid upon
          them by a large expansion of  government activities?"  Again
          notice the special words:  "during  any type  of emergency."
          They didn't even mention major nuclear attack.
              Since "large expansion of government activities"  is not
          defined, do they have any limitation?  All this is in  store
          for American citizens.
              They  have  established  what  they  call  the  'Federal
          Preparedness Agency'  under the General Services Administra-
          tion which  has the  responsibility to see that this program
          is carried out.  We should keep our eye on the GSA. 
              Better yet, get after Congress to  get this  law  making
          ability taken away from the executive  branch of government. 
              This program of executive  orders is  the most dangerous
          weapon in the  hands of government  designed to  make us all
          slaves.  If "X" day is called, America  will be  no more and
          we will  be powerless  to do  anything about it.  Our action
          has to be NOW.  Waiting one day too long will be one day too
          late.
               Many will not believe this could happen in our country.
               Write Congress and raise questions about this.  Ask how
          they delegated their  law  making  powers  to  the executive
          branch.
               Ask  where   they  found  this  authority.    Ask  your
          Congressman for a copy of this particular executive order.
               Imagine  12,000  laws of this  type on the books at the
          present . . .  All  without any  authority  from us.  And of
          course, no need to tell  the  American  people  about these,
          they wouldn't understand them anyway.  
               Is this part of the  glory of the  position  in govern-
          ment?    Congress has  delegated  emergency  powers  to  the
          president . . . Congress  has no power or  right to delegate
          any of their powers.  No where  in our  Constitution does it
          say anything  about  giving 'emergency  powers to the presi-
          dent'.
               The argument goes that in today's  world, time could be
          important and the  president has to be  able to act quickly.
          It may  be true, however, it cannot be in this country with-
          out a grant for that authority from the people.
               No where does the right appear to do  any thing in case
          of  a  mistake  or  an  emergency.  The  procedures are well
          defined and it is our duty  to see that  they  are observed.
          There is no other way in America!
               If  they  feel   granting   emergency   powers   is  so
          
          important, propose  an amendment to the Constitution and see
          if we will agree to the  importance.   Of course  the amemd-
          ment procedure  is slow  and cumbersome.  It was meant to be
          that way.  We  have ordained  and established  the authority
          for our government and only we can agree to changes. 
               Just because a practice has been used for a long period
          does not  make it  right.   If the  practice was unconstitu-
          tional when it began, it is still unconstitutional. 
               George Washington wrote in his  Farewell Address:  "The
          basis of our political systems is the right of the people to
          make and alter their  constitutions of  government.  But the
          constitution  which at  the time  exists till  changed by an
          explicit  and  authentic act of the whole people is sacredly
          obligatory upon all." 
               He  plainly  recognized  the  basis for our government.
          When did this change occur?   It has  been said that tyranny
          comes on  slowly.  Before  anyone realizes it, it's present.
          Is that what we have today?  
               Is this the  vehicle to make our  sovereignty disappear
          and  for  the  USA to  become a  full  fledged member of the 
          United Nations under Bush's New World Order?


              PLEASE READ THE 'SALES PITCH' CHAPTER.  THANKS!
