

                       TAXES AND THE FEDERAL RESERVE                      

               How would  you like  to own  a business where no one in
          government knew who you  are  .  .  .  where  the  IRS never
          questioned you  and only  the lowest  of lower minor bureau-
          crats has  his hand  in your  pocket .  . .  for real estate
          taxes only  . . . and no one in government dared to approach
          or reproach you ?  . .  .   You are  indeed the  king of the
          mountain and  the ignorant  American citizens are paying you
          over 17 1/2 million dollars PER HOUR OF EVERY DAY!  NO taxes
          . . no control . . . how sweet.  This is not science fiction
          nor a story about fairies or leprechauns . . . there is such
          an  outfit  in  our  country  that pays no taxes except real
          estate taxes.
               If they pay no  federal income,  state income  or other
          taxes,  guess  who  has  to  make up the difference?  That's
          right . . . you and I are the jerks who pay  the 17  mil per
          hour and  make up  their share of taxes.  Who is this evader
          of taxes?  The Federal Reserve System!
               But you  say they're  part of  the Federal Government--
          at least  under some  government control.   WRONG!   This is
          what they want you to believe  but it's  a fairy  tale!  The
          Fed is  NOT an  agency of the federal government and neither
          does any division of  government  control  their  actions or
          policies.    It  has  the  same  relationship to the federal
          government as the Federal Express or your local Federal Meat
          Market.  NONE.  It is a privately owned banking system.
               The  Federal  Reserve  is  a  central  bank, similar to
          central banks around the world.   These include  the Bank of
          England, the  Bank of  France, the Bundesbank of Germany and
          Banco de Mexico.  No  government  in  the  world  controls a
          central bank; the opposite is true.  These banks tell people
          and governments where to go . . what  to do  and they answer
          to no one!
               Banks conjure images of vaults overflowing with  stacks
          of money.  What is money?    ". .  . (a)  Standard pieces of
          gold,  silver,  copper,  nickel, etc., stamped by government
          authority and used as  a medium  of exchange  and measure of
          value; coin or coins; also called hard money.  (b) any paper
          note issued by a government or  an authorized  bank and used
          in  the  same  way;  bank  notes;  bills;  also called paper
          money."  (Webster's New Twentieth Century Dictionary).
               Random House  dictionary  defines  a  note  as  "any of
          various types of instruments covering debts, as a promissory
          note."   Now take  a fast  look at  the dollar  bill in your
          pocket.   It tells  you it's a 'Federal Reserve Note'!  It's
          an instrument covering debt, created out of thin air, only a
          credit entry on bank books.  This secret outfit controls our
          money and tells us what it's worth. 
               Is  that  legal?    Let's  find  out.    What  does our
          Constitution have  to say  about money?  First, Congress has
          the authority to "borrow money on  the credit  of the United
          States."  This corrects a defect in the original Articles of
          
          Confederation.  Today, we see the result of unrestrained use
          of  this  power  when  Congress  proposes  raising  the debt
          ceiling.
               Next we find "Congress shall have  the Power  . .  . To
          coin Money,  regulate the Value thereof, and of foreign Coin
          . ." 
               Not one word in our Constitution allows our money to be
          a piece  of paper with numbers printed on it.  To coin money
          does not mean to print money.
               The colonists had  over  one  hundred  years experience
          with paper  money.   They were known as Bills of Credit back
          then.  Bad money  experiences  left  a  nasty  taste  in the
          mouths of most at the Constitutional Convention in Philadel-
          phia.  Their plan was to stop the use of paper money.   They
          added a  monetary constraint to the document which prohibits
          any state from 'making any Thing but gold and silver  Coin a
          Tender in  the Payment  of Debts'.  This requirement slapped
          the responsibility right on the  states  to  keep  our money
          honest.  We have a constitutional right to real money.
               Debasement of our money is so complete that we now have
          ersatz pennies  and coated  copper coins  replace our silver
          coins.  This is a travesty!
               Paper money is a good deal for government.  A worthless
          piece of paper with  a number  printed on  it tells  us it's
          worth ten dollars, one hundred dollars . . . or one thousand
          dollars.
               In the upper left corner of  that paper  dollar in your
          pocket is  the statement, "This note is legal tender for all
          debts, public and private".   That's  a cockeyed  lie!  Gold
          and silver  coin are  the ONLY  legal tender  allowed by the
          Constitution.
               The Coinage Act of 1792 defined our money and specifies
          our coins  are to  be of  gold and  silver.  This is still a
          valid act of the Congress . . . Congress has  never repealed
          it.
               Congress is  ordered to  regulate the  value of foreign
          coin.  Yet today we have foreign exchange  markets where the
          value  of  our  dollar  floats  in  relationship  to foreign
          currency.  This is so unconstitutional  as to  border on the
          edge of criminal.
               How  did  we  get  into  this  situation concerning our
          money? Let's unravel a web of intrigue and  deceit.  Central
          banks  were  common  in  Europe  before World War I and they
          decided to set up the  same  system  in  the  United States.
          Earlier in  our history,  we had  two central banks.  Fortu-
          nately, at those times, we  had  Presidents  who  valued and
          respected  their  oath  to  preserve  the Constitution.  Our
          government did not renew these bank charters and they died a
          quiet death.  However, there is no charter requiring renewal
          under the  Federal  Reserve  Act.    They  have  a perpetual
          license to steal.
               The  late  eighteen  and  early nineteen hundreds saw a
          major campaign by international bankers to get a new central
          bank established  in this  country.   The first character we
          
          find in this story  is  Paul  Moritz  Warburg  from Hamburg,
          Germany.   He represented  a large  European banking family,
          the Rothschilds.    These  are  the  people  who  once said,
          "Permit me to issue and control the money of a nation, and I
          care not who makes the laws!"  
               The  Rothschilds  bankrolled  Warburg  in  1902.    His
          mission?   To convince major bankers and industrialists that
          a private central bank was the answer to  America's economic
          ills.   In addition  to whatever money Warburg needed to buy
          into New York money houses, they paid him  half a  million a
          year .  . .  a tidy  sum even  today.   Rothschild knew what
          fabulous profits  there  would  be  after  they  set  up the
          private bank.   And  they were  right . . . 17 million bucks
          per hour ain't shabby.
               Warburg spent eight years around the  country preaching
          his false  economics.   There were many conspirators in this
          goal to control the United States' economy.   One greedy and
          powerful  character  was  US  Senator Nelson Aldrich.  (Yes,
          Nelson Rockefeller's grandfather.)  Congress often denounced
          Aldrich  for  the  disregard  of  his  oath  of office as he
          devoted his power and  energies  to  the  program  of inter-
          national finance.
               Strange happenings began the night of November 22, 1910
          when reporters  received  a  tip  that  some  very important
          people from  New York  city would  be arriving  at the train
          station in Hoboken, New  Jersey.    Along  with  Warburg and
          Aldrich, reporters  identified the  biggest names in banking
          and industry and included many government  officials.  These
          men controlled  the oil, railroads, communications and heavy
          industry in this country.
               Not one  man would  talk to  reporters.   They all dis-
          appeared into the last car on the train, a private car owned
          by  Aldrich.    Drawing  all  shades,  they  left  reporters
          scratching their  heads on  the reason  for these movers and
          shakers being there.  There wasn't a hint on the destination
          of the train or reasons for the secrecy.
               Thirty years  later, some details of that trip emerged.
          Jekyll Island, off the coast of Georgia, was where these big
          shots travelled  and came up with the bill creating the pri-
          vately owned bank for United States.   True  to Rothschilds,
          they knew  once they  had control  of our money, it wouldn't
          make any difference who makes the laws.
               Deception was immediate.   The  conspirators  knew that
          the representatives  from Southern  and Western states would
          never agree to any bill suggesting a central bank or control
          by Wall Street money.  The first try to get the private bank
          bill through Congress was called the  Aldrich Plan.   People
          fought back and in 1911, they defeated the bill.
               This kind  of greed  doesn't die.   It was only a minor
          set back.  Their  final triumph  occurred in  1913.  Warburg
          insisted  the  bill  go  back  into  Congress as the Federal
          Reserve Act to hide  that  it  was  the  same  bill defeated
          earlier.
               The  lackeys   pushed  the  bill  through  Congress  on
          
          December 22, 1913 after most members  had gone  home for the
          Christmas holidays.  President Woodrow Wilson signed it into
          law the very next day.  America's independence disappeared. 
               The preamble to the  Federal Reserve  Act tells  us the
          purposes of the Act are "to provide for the establishment of
          Federal Reserve  Banks, to  furnish an  elastic currency, to
          afford  a   means  of  rediscounting  commercial  paper,  to
          establish a more effective  supervision  of  banking  in the
          United States, and for other purposes."
               'Elastic currency'?   That's  the same as rubber money.
          Rediscounting is a system  where member  banks borrow credit
          from  the  central  bank.    This allows fluctuations in the
          discount rate and  enables  the  Fed  to  control  the money
          supply of  the nation.   Rediscounting  influences the total
          outstanding credit on commercial paper and government bonds.
          In this way, the central reserve bank can expand or contract
          the money  supply at  will.   They can  now manufacture boom
          times or depressions whenever it strikes their fancy.
               And with  all the  bank and  Savings and Loan closures,
          it's clear they were effective  in  their  duty  to exercise
          supervision of  banking in  the United States.  Or . . . was
          that planned?
               'And for other purposes'  -- what  does that  mean?  Is
          that the  all encompassing clause which removes all restric-
          tions?  Warburg and his lackeys knew  exactly what they were
          doing.
               The Act gave authority (?) for a private banking system
          to create 'money' out of thin  air.   We find  proof of this
          from  hearings  before  the  House  Committee on Banking and
          Currency, September 30, 1941.  Representative  Wright Patman
          of  Texas  asked  Federal  Reserve Governor Marriner Eccles:
          "How did you get the money to buy those two  billion dollars
          worth of Government securities in 1933?"
               Eccles replied: "We created it."
               Patman asks: "Out of what?"
               Eccles: "Out of the right to issue credit money."
               Patman:  "And  there  is  nothing  behind it, is there,
          except our Government's credit?"
               Eccles: "That is what  our money  system is.   If there
          were no  debts in  our money  system, there  wouldn't be any
          money."
               See now why your dollar bill is called a note?
               This interview is from the Congressional  Record and is
          also in  an exceptional  book by Eustace Mullins, called The
          Federal Reserve Conspiracy,  (Omni  Publications, Hawthorne,
          CA., 1971).
               The  money  we  use  today  has  its basis in debt, not
          wealth.  This funny  money, contrived  by a  private banking
          cartel  for  their  profit,  now controls our economy.  And,
          speaking of profit, our  government does  NOT know  who owns
          The Federal Reserve system or whether they are even American
          citizens for that matter.  How does that grab you?
               Let's  check  interest  payments  again.    They demand
          payment in  full and  on time every year.  Breaking down the
          
          $17.6 million per hour  means  we  shell  out  over $226,000
          every time your heart beats.  Over a quarter of a million of
          our bucks!
               One requirement of the  Federal Reserve  Act orders the
          system to  have an  annual public  audit.  The Fed has NEVER
          had a  public audit.   When  questioned about  this, the Fed
          answers that  they are  continually audited  . .  . BY THEM-
          SELVES!  They do not address the word  'public'.   It's like
          having the fox count the hens in the chicken house.
               When someone questions their legality, the Fed responds
          with, "Would  you rather  have the  control of  money in the
          hands  of  politicians  and  politics?"  Politicians are, at
          least in theory, responsible to the people.  But what's more
          important, the Constitution orders Congress [politicians] to
          control the value of our money!  Honest  money is  a guaran-
          tee.    There  is  not  one instance in history to show that
          politicians have  ever destroyed  the value  of money  . . .
          it's only been done by international bankers.
               We read that Congress shall coin money and regulate its
          value.  Whenever you see the words 'Congress  shall', it's a
          COMMAND!   There is NO option or permission in our Constitu-
          tion to delegate  congressional  duties  to  another govern-
          mental body, and certainly not to a private cartel.
               If this  isn't clear  thus far, let's take a quick look
          at the Tenth Amendment . . THE POWERS  NOT DELEGATED  TO THE 
          UNITED STATES  BY THE  CONSTITUTION, NOR PROHIBITED BY IT TO 
          THE STATES, ARE RESERVED  TO THE  STATES RESPECTIVELY  OR TO
          THE PEOPLE.   If  we didn't  precisely grant the power, they
          don't have it.
               Our Constitution gives  NO  authority  for  the Federal
          Reserve  system.    Neither  is there any permission for our
          government to be in  any type  of banking  business.  (FDIC,
          FSLIC, IMF, World Bank, etc, etc.)  Congress is breaking the
          law . . . and their oath to support our Constitution.   As a
          result,  they  saddle  us  with  debt which they call money.
          This control of Americans  is so  thorough, it  effects even
          the little kid with pennies in a piggy bank.
               Write  a  letter  to  any  Fed  Reserve  bank and ask a
          question about money.  The question is unimportant,  but pay
          attention to  the return  envelope.   It will  bear a stamp.
          All government mail has a Roman styled eagle  printed in the
          upper right  corner.  If the Fed was a government entity, it
          would also use a franked envelope!
               To show that no one in our government has any say-so in
          the  activities  of  the  Fed,  an  under-secretary  of  the
          Treasury appeared on PBS.  He said the government would like
          to  see  the  Federal  Reserve  increase the money supply to
          allow for a more moderate growth.  More  wishful thinking is
          for the  Fed to  lower the discount rate . . . the rate they
          charge member banks when they borrow money.  What drivel!
               They have just been forced to lower the  discount rate.
          It has  to be  that the economy has gone much more sour than
          even the Fed expected.  Strange, isn't it?  The condition of
          the economy  is all a result of previous actions by the Fed!
          
          There are a lot of theories out there . .  . please  make up
          your own mind as events unfold.
               This brings  up another point Americans should question
          ...  ownership of gold by the Federal government.   Our gold
          is  supposedly  at  Ft.  Knox, Kentucky safely stored under-
          ground.  But, is it?   No one  really knows  and congressmen
          have been  unable to  get into  the vaults to be sure of its
          existence.  Why is  it that  we've heard  nothing about this
          alleged storage lately?
               These  are  public  monies entrusted to the government.
          Just where is our gold?   If  it's  not  at  Ft.  Knox, what
          happened to  it?   Is it  possible it's  already in a secret
          vault under the  Seine  River  in  Paris?    Letters  to the
          Secretary of the Treasury and members of Congress might just
          revive interest on this  crucial issue.   Answers  should be
          very interesting.
               Is it  also possible  that our gold is no longer at Ft.
          Knox because of shady  manipulations  involving  the Federal
          Reserve System?   International bankers have been moving our
          gold out of the country for over 100 years.  What went wrong
          is clear.   Our  money problems  are all  a result  of a law
          which Congress had no  power  to  enact  which  permits this
          financial fiasco.  
               Question your  Senators and  Representatives about this
          violation  of  constitutional  powers.    The  only  way our
          government  can  make  ANY  change in the basic operation is
          with our consent through the amendment process!   We have to
          demand that  Congress take  away the power to create 'money'
          from a private bank and fulfill their constitutional duty to
          issue honest money.  
               If  Congress  refuses  to  perform  its duty, we should
          throw them all out of office and elect honest people  to the
          positions.
               Your taxes  have gone  wild ONLY because of unconstitu-
          tional practices by our  government.    I  have  pointed out
          another one of their illegal deals.  When do we get a handle
          on this  crap?   It's up  to you!   Today  we're holding the
          dirty end of a short stick!      


          YOUR SUPPORT OF SHAREWARE IS IMPORTANT AND APPRECIATED!

                   PLEASE REGISTER . . . ONLY $19.95
