##### Updated format



CLINTON/GORE ON ISSUES OF CONCERN TO GAYS AND LESBIANS



Stop discrimination against gays and lesbians at
all levels of government:  As President, Bill
Clinton would issue executive orders to repeal the
ban on gays and lesbians from military or foreign
service and to prohibit discrimination in federal
employment, federal contracts and government
services.

Support federal civil rights legislation for gays
and lesbians: A Clinton/Gore Administration would
support a federal gay civil rights bill that
respects freedom of religion by exempting religious
organizations; and that provides clear evidentiary
standards to be used in court.

Make the fight against AIDS a real national
priority and implement a coordinated national AIDS
strategy with a 6-point plan: Bill Clinton and Al
Gore believe that continued indifference and
further delay in the fight against AIDS is
unconscionable.

The Clinton/Gore Plan

*    Appoint an AIDS policy director to head a
     "Manhattan Project" that coordinates federal
     AIDS policies, cuts through bureaucratic red
     tape and implements recommendations made by
     the National Commission on AIDS.

*    Speed up the drug approval process and commit
     increased government resources to research and
     development of AIDS-related treatments and
     vaccines, and ensure that women and people of
     color are included in research and drug
     trials.

*    Fully fund the Ryan White CARE Act.

*    Promote a national AIDS education and
     prevention initiative that disseminates frank
     and accurate information to reduce the spread
     of the disease, and educates our children
     about the nature and threat of AIDS.

*    Provide quality health coverage to all
     Americans with HIV as part of a broader
     national health care program; work vigorously
     to improve access to promising experimental
     therapies for people with life-threatening
     illnesses; and improve preventive and
     long-term care.

*    Combat AIDS-related discrimination and oppose
     needless mandatory HIV testing in federal
     organizations such as the Peace Corps, Job
     Corps and the Foreign Service; stop the
     cynical politicization of immigration policies
     by directing the Justice Department to follow
     the Department of Health and Human Services'
     recommendation that HIV be removed from the
     immigration restrictions list.

Crack down on hate crimes: A Clinton/Gore
Administration will be tough on anti-gay violence.
As President, Bill Clinton would direct the Justice
Department to aggressively prosecute hate crimes
perpetrated against any individuals because of
their sexual orientation, race, creed or religion.


The Record

*    Senator Gore supported the Hate Crimes
     Statistics Act which provides for the
     collection and publication of data about
     crimes that manifest prejudice based on race,
     religion, sexual orientation or ethnicity.

*    Supported the AIDS Federal Policy Act of 1987
     which bans discrimination against persons with
     AIDS or the HIV infection.

*    Al Gore has supported legislation to remove
     HIV from the immigration restrictions list.
