

                   THE TRUTH ABOUT GORDON KAHL

                      RADICAL TAX PROTESTOR

                               AND

                 MILITANT POSSE COMITATUS MEMBER

                               BY

                           LEN MARTIN

   This book is dedicated to Gordon Kahl, a man who gave his
life trying to restore America's freedoms as stated in the U.S.
Constitution by our Founding Fathers.
   It is hoped that his spirit will be a guiding force for other
Americans to follow--united with other patriots in the battle
against the common enemy and their "agents."
   So that HIS and OUR children and grandchildren might live in
freedom, we must ensure that Gordon Kahl did not die in vain.

   Like other patriotic Americans, Gordon Kahl was NOT against
paying taxes. He realized that if we are to have a strong, free
country, all who enjoy the freedoms our country offers must pay
their "fair share" to support legitimate government activities
in order to preserve these freedoms.
   When he learned that our government was no longer a
government of, by, and for the people but had been taken over by
subversive forces, he decided to do something about it.
   Yes, Gordon Kahl had been fighting on many fronts, trying to
stop the un-American activities taking place in our country; but
his main effort was to expose "WHO" are the groups of people
behind these un-American activities. In this, he was being
successful. In fact, he was being TOO successful. So, "they" had
to stop him. The easiest way was to bring in the IRS "Goon
Squads" and their flunkie police force, the U.S. marshals.
   To eliminate this thorn in their side (Gordon Kahl), one of
the enforcement arms of the IRS, the U.S. marshals, struck north
of Medina, North Dakota. But they bit off more than they
bargained for. After seeing his son shot by so-called
"protectors of the citizens," he reacted as would any protective
parent and "took care" of these law-breaking U.S. marshals.
(Careful documentation of the violations by the U.S. marshals
and other government figures has been made.)
   To cover up these violations, government officers started a
smear campaign. This campaign was aided and abetted by the Money
Czar-controlled news media. If you have read the papers, watched
TV, or listened to the radio, you are aware that in referring to
Gordon Kahl, these terms were used:

   "Militant tax protestor," "fanatic tax-protester," "an
extremist tax protestor," "right wing anarchist," "militant
survivalist," "anti-tax," "a threat to national law and order,"
etc., etc.
   Government officials, news reporters, and editors in their
smear campaign zeroed in on two groups--the tax rebels and the
Posse Comitatus. Since these government and news-media jokers
have used these derogatory labels in referring to tax rebels and
the Posse Comitatus, it is necessary for us to address these
areas and set the record straight for people who are looking for
the truth. To believe what these government and most news media
characters are saying is like believing in fairy tales.
   Since the income tax is the most familiar to the average
American, lets start with it.

    HOW WOULD OUR GOVERNMENT OPERATE WITHOUT THE INCOME TAX?

   In trying to combat the destructive income tax, the greatest
problem pro-Americans face is misinformation. The question
usually asked by average Americans who don't know the score is,
"How would our government operate without the income tax?" OK.
Here is what Congressman Larry McDonald wrote in 1975:

   "The latest federal budget shows that individual income taxes
supply only 42 percent of the federal budget revenues; the rest
comes from other sources. There is ample documentation to prove
that getting the federal government out of unauthorized
businesses would cut the cost of government by at least 50
percent, while revenue is reduced 42 percent, which would give
us a surplus of 8 percent."

   Both this and much more material by Congressman McDonald,
proving that we DO NOT NEED the income tax, appeared in the
publication "The Freeman."
   Before 1913, when the income tax was put into effect, our
nation got along very well without it. This was because our
government engaged in just activities that were lawful--
activities as outlined in the Constitution.
   At first, the tax on income was small and no one complained,
but it has been the history of governments to begin oppression
in a small way and then little by little expand this oppression.
This has been proven to be the case with the income tax.
   Few people felt the impact of the income tax until President
F.D. Roosevelt started a multitude of social programs in the
1930's. It was then that the downhill skid towards Socialism in
the United States began.
   To carry out these Socialist programs, the size and powers of
our government expanded rapidly. In the early 1940's, there were
sixteen workers in private enterprise supporting one government
employee. Now the ratio is 4-1 -- four workers in the private
field supporting one government employee.
   The sad truth of the matter is this: the Socialist activities
in which these government workers are engaged are
unconstitutional. It doesn't take much imagination to realize
that OUR NATION'S PROBLEMS ARE CAUSED BECAUSE THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT IS PROMOTING TOO MANY UNCONSTITUTIONAL PROGRAMS. The
income tax is probably the most destructive of all.
   In case you are wondering why such information hasn't been
carried by the national news media, just remember that the Money
Czars who instigated the income tax are the same jokers who own
or otherwise control the press, TV, and radio. Sadly, our
educational system is also being used to distort or omit the
truth about the income tax. This is because the companies that
print the textbooks used in our public and many private schools
are owned by the same Money Czars who own or control the
national news media. Naturally, they don't want the truth known,
so it is left out or distorted.
   Now you can disregard Congressman McDonald's statement and
continue to let the "agents" of the Money Czars dip into your
pockets, or you can go a little farther and do a little digging
on your own. Later in this booklet are listed some sources to
help you get started.

                   WE MUST PAY OUR FAIR SHARE

   When it comes to condemning what the "agents" of the Money
Czars call "tax rebels," many people say, "everyone should pay
their fair share," or "I pay my taxes, why shouldn't they?" But,
damn it! Are the rich paying their fair share?
   In 1971, the year before I finally wised up, the IRS suckered
me for $1400. IT WAS THAT SAME YEAR THAT ONE OF THE "MONEY
CZARS," NELSON ROCKEFELLER, WAS REPORTED TOP HAVE PAID $1400 IN
INCOME TAX. Now, I pay my fair share. Did Nelson Rockefeller pay
his share?
   For seventy years the Money Czars, who control our nation's
money supply through their ownership of the Federal Reserve,
have had their grubby hands in the pockets of the working people
in America--in taking larger and larger portions of their
earnings through the income tax.
   In recent years, the portion of earnings has become so great
that many concerned citizens started looking into the makeup of
the income tax and the IRS. They found:

   1) There is evidence to prove the Internal Revenue Service,
which collects the income tax, is a PRIVATE CORPORATION and NOT
an agency of the federal government. Isn't it ironic that both
the federal reserve and the income tax came into existence the
same year, 1913; and neither are under the control of our U.S.
government?

   2) The manner in which money is confiscated from tax-paying
suckers is unconstitutional. The IRS "goon Squads" don't even
follow their own IRS agents handbook.

   3) The Sixteenth Amendment to the Constitution, which gave us
the income tax, was not legally ratified  by three-fourths of
the states as required by the U.S. Constitution; only twelve
states legally ratified the Income Tax Amendment. Also, nowhere
can be found a President's signature as required.

   The illegality of the income tax and the manner by which it
is collected is so ROTTEN that it is amazing the Money Czars
have gotten away with it for so long. But, don't just believe
me; read what others are saying:

   Dr. Martin A. Larsen, one  of America's leading authorities
on taxes and money: "THE AMERICAN TAX REBELLION IS IN NO SENSE A
MOVEMENT TO OVERTHROW THE LAW; on the contrary its purpose is to
enforce the Constitution against those who would destroy it...
Our only hope consists in a middle class rebellion which will be
so strong that unless a majority of Congress fails to heed its
mandate, they will be replaced by others that will. That is the
political solution for which we hope... The only other recourse
will be a bloody revolution, and perhaps the destruction not
only of our culture, but of civilization itself."

   Various patriotic organizations have put together pamphlets
of statements by former IRS officials that are revealing--very
revealing. Here are a few of the choice ones:

   T. Coleman Andrews, former IRS Commissioner: "I believe that
a better way to raise revenue not only can be found but must be
found, because I am convinced the present system is leading us
right back to the very tyranny for which those who established
this land of freedom risked their lives, their fortunes, and
their sacred honor to forever free themselves."

B.C. "Bill" Clifton, former IRS fraud investigator: "NO TAXPAYER
SHOULD EVER COOPERATE WITH IT (IRS) in any way because every
agent has taken an oath to overcome any love he might develop
for the taxpayer during the course of an investigation. THE
WORST THING A TAXPAYER CAN DO IS TO BE TOO COOPERATIVE. THAT CAN
GET HIM SHAFTED--EVEN INDICTED."

   Those are pretty strong statements. Since they formerly
worked for the cut-throat IRS, they should know what they are
talking about. If you still think you can get a fair shake from
the IRS by trying to cooperate with i t, here is another goodie:

    The Seventh Circuit Court in Chicago: "Who would believe the
ironic truth that the taxpayer who cooperates with the IRS and
supplies information fares much worse than the individual who
relies upon his Constitutional rights."

   There are many other statements by concerned government
officials. Former Utah Governor J. Bracken Lee is one of those
concerned officials. The following letter written by
Governor Lee was taken, in part, from the book "The Rise and
Fall of the United States":

   "There has never been anything more destructive to our form
of government than the Sixteenth Amendment. Had those who
brought about its passage been interested in the American
people, they would not have lied, cheated, and tricked them into
adopting anything so completely incompatible with our
Constitution. When they say the government needs this to get
money, THEY LIE, because there are other means of collecting the
needed funds without destroying the freedom, or taking away the
rights which the people had while the courts still honored our
Constitution.
   "I do not believe that the government should have all the
money it demands; and it is certain that no other tax confers
upon it the power to exploit its people and destroy their
freedom as does the income tax. Some form of national sales tax
would produce more income with very minor collection cost, and,
what is more important, would free the American people  from
harassment by the most corrupt of all government agencies. Under
this substitute tax, the rich would pay more than they pay now,
and the poor would pay less, and there would be no
discrimination, no loopholes, no special privileges.
   "The Congress has granted to the courts and to the Collector
of Internal Revenue the right to ride roughshod over the
taxpayer in order to collect the income tax. Our legislators
know and our courts realize that THIS TAX COULD NOT BE COLLECTED
IF THEY WERE TO UPHOLD THE CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS OF THE
TAXPAYING CITIZENS as they do those who are guilty of heinous or
violent crimes.
   "History should convince our elected leaders that revolution
  becomes inevitable when those who govern assume special
privileges an d display the arrogance, the rank injustice, the
dishonesty, the corruption, the complete disregard for the
rights of the people now exercised by the Internal Revenue
Department. THE EVILS OF WHICH IT IS GUILTY HAVE INFILTRATED TO
SOME DEGREE TO EVERY OTHER BRANCH OF GOVERNMENT. The attitude
of this department is, " The public be damned," and this is
lowly but surely expanding to a point that if the leaders do not
act, the people most certainly will." (Emphasis added.)

   In 1979, the American Mercury printed an article written by
Dr. Martin A. Larson. This article has been reproduced and
circulated by many patriotic organizations. Dr. Larson has been
recognized as America's foremost authority on taxes and money;
so listen to what he has to say, in part:

               ARE YOU STILL PAYING INCOME TAXES?

   "This title may sound odd or ironic, but when we explain its
implications, you will not, perhaps, be surprized. The fact is
that literally MILLIONS of Americans, are either refusing to pay
federal income tax entirely or are drastically reducing the
amounts they are surrendering to Big Brother in Washington.

                 TAX AVOIDANCE THROUGH LOOPHOLES

   "In the first place, let me remind the reader of what we
wrote a dozen years ago in a book called "The Great Tax Fraud",
which demonstrated that even at that time there were enough
loopholes (or truckholes) in the Internal Revenue Code to enable
the WEALTHY AND FAVORED CORPORATIONS to escape about $45 billion
in taxation, a sum which since--in spite of highly publicized
attempts to establish tax equity--has increased to not less than
$80 billion. Mr J. Paul Getty in 1969 and 1970 paid tax of
$6,000 ON A PERSONAL INCOME OF $70 MILLION.

               TAXPAYERS NOW HAVE MORE PROTECTION

   "It is indeed interesting to note that, as a result, various
and successive exposes of the IRS and its high-handed methods of
extortion, one claw after another has been extracted from its
talons... The taxpayer now has many means of self-defense--if he
will merely learn how to use them--which he did not possess
before the Tax Rebellion began a few years ago.

                     WIDESPREAD TAX-EVASION

   "However, as increasing members of the wage and salaried
classes and especially the great, independent middle class
become more aware of the immunities conferred upon the American
elite, they, too, began to resist or rebel in one way or
another. As early as 1972, a Gallop Poll revealed that 74
percent of the American public would be in complete sympathy
with a general tax strike; in 1973, the commissioner of Internal
Revenue testified before a congressional committee that the
agency knew of at least five million taxpayers who had ceased
making reports; that it had been able to establish contact with
less than one-third of them; and that the losses to the
treasury totalled $5 or $6 billion. However, other knowledgeable
sources placed the actual loss somewhere between $25 and $30
billion because of the phenomenon alone.
   "Shortly thereafter, the then Secretary of the Treasury, John
Connelly declared that in the southwestern portion of the United
States, 74 PERCENT OF ALL RETURNS PREPARED BY TAX PREPARERS
WERE, to a greater or lesser degree, FRAUDULENT AND THAT THE
GOVERNMENT WAS POWERLESS TO PROSECUTE BECAUSE OF THE NUMBER OF
DELINQUENTS; and another official declared that in other parts
of the country, fraud was even WORSE and more prevalent.
   "All this, nevertheless, was only the beginning of the tax
revolt now sweeping the nation. Individually, highly articulate
tax rebels began formulating techniques by which total and legal
refusal to pay federal income tax might be achieved. Some of
these were prosecuted and convicted, and some were acquitted.
But this was purely a matter of selective prosecution or
persecution; those indicted were charged, not because of failure
to pay taxes, but because of their public proclamations in
regard to the tax laws and their enforcement. The IRS hoped, by
obtaining a few convictions, that it would be able to suppress
the tax rebellion and cow the masses into submission and
obedience. Such, however, has not been the result.

                THE REBELLION SPREADS AND DEEPENS

   "The rebellion has spread throughout the nation and now
involves great numbers of people in every stratum of society.
Let us summarize the most common techniques of resistance.
   "More millions have simply stopped making any returns at all
and these include:
(1) Wage workers who have reported enough exemptions and
allowances so that no income tax is taken from their pay or at
least so that no refund would be due even if a conventional
return were filed;
(2) Self-employed persons who have ceased making any estimated
payments or final returns; and
(3) Proprietors and others classified as self-employed who make
returns but who drastically understate their income and thus
exempt themselves from most of the taxation which would
otherwise be levied upon their incomes.

                        WHAT HAPPENS THEN

   "You may wonder what action the government takes when the
wage earner or self employed person makes no return at all.
Since there are millions of these, the IRS simply places their
names in what is known as the Correspondence File, sends a
series of form letters demanding a full return with all payments
due within ten days, and hopes for the best. In many cases, the
addressee has moved and left no forwarding address; if the form
letter reaches the intended recipient, he usually throws it into
the waste basket; sometimes he writes DECEASED on the envelope
and returns it to the IRS, without opening it.
   "For the great majority of these cases, the IRS is quite
helpless; it cannot spend hundreds of hours tracking down each
delinquent and then hundreds more attempting to prosecute the
elusive evader. Remember that IRS agents must produce $100 an
hour for all time spent in making audits--otherwise their
efforts are counterproductive.
   "Then there are other millions who claim one or two or three
additional allowances when they file their W-4 forms with their
employers; by so doing they not only prevent the government from
keeping their money interest-free until it is time for refunds;
often they have less taken from their pay than is actually due,
and then "forget" to make a return or pay any additional taxes
on the due date.

                  THE SELF-EMPLOYED PROPRIETORS

   "And then we have the self-employed, especially business
proprietors. the number of these increased from 5, 689,000 in
1945 to 10,874,000 in 1974; their receipts from $79 to $328
billion; and the average reported receipts from $13,870 to
$30,280. Almost 96 percent of these businesses reported receipts
of less than $50,000; and all of them reported net taxable
incomes averaging only $4,217.00
   "The conclusion seems obvious that they must have been
understating their gross and net incomes drastically. The IRS is
well aware of this, but is powerless to do much about the
situation because of the vast numbers involved and even more
because of the recently developed expertise among these
taxpayers in concealing cash flow and reducing taxable income.
this is done by keeping two sets of books and by diverting a
portion of cash income from destinations where it might be
traced and documented without great difficulty.

   "A remarkable and comparatively new phenomenon has developed
in recent years and has now reached dimensions where it
CONSTITUTES a definite threat to the entire Federal system of
taxation; this is known as the Underground Economy. When a
painter does a house job for $350 instead of $500 but does not
report the income to taxing authorities, he has joined the
Underground. When a girl baby-sits and her pay goes unreported,
the employer and employee have both done the same. When a
mechanic repairs a neighbor's car in his home garage and fails
to report his compensation for the job, he, too, has become a
member of the Economic Underground.

   "It is now freely admitted that at least $100 billion of
unreported and untaxed income goes to the Underground; some
estimates place the total at not less than $200 billion. How
great it is, no one knows; but that it is enormous is
incontestable, as is the fact that it is growing rapidly and
that the IRS is quite incapable of coping with the problem.

   "So again, ARE YOU STILL PAYING TAXES TO THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT ON ALL YOUR "TAXABLE" INCOME? If so, YOU BELONG TO A
DIMINISHING SEGMENT OF THE POPULATION. Inflation and
confiscatory taxation together with a general disenchantment
with the federal government have combined to drive millions or
tens of millions into a mental state in which they are ready to
take any step they can in order to preserve for themselves a
larger share of the money they earn so that they can survive in
decency -- even if this means that they must risk the danger of
prosecution and prison. More and more of them, however, are
learning the techniques long practiced by their European
counterparts by which they avoid a large fraction  --  often all
-- of the demands made upon them by their central government.

   "Again and finally: Are YOU still paying all the taxes
demanded by Big Brother in Washington?"

   Take special note of what Dr. Larson has written; he knows
what he's talking about. Dr. Larson has written many books on
the subject of the income tax. he also writes a weekly column
for the Spotlight, 300 Independence Ave., S.E., Washington D.C.
20003, an excellent weekly patriotic publication.

                  INCOME TAX IS COMMUNIST PLANK

   What Dr. Larson, Gov. Lee, and the other public figures have
said should make you plenty angry about the income tax. If not,
here's the capper: The Second Plank of the Communist Manifesto
advocates A HEAVY PROGRESSIVE INCOME TAX.

   In other words, the writer of the COMMUNIST MANIFESTO, Karl
Marx, was saying i.e. one of the things that will bring about
the downfall of a nation is to impose a progressive income tax
on the working class of people. So, anyone who keeps on paying
income taxes is playing right into the hands of the Communist
(Money Czars) schemers.

   Isn't it odd that none of this information is reported by the
mass news media? But, of course, we average Joes and Janes
aren't supposed to know these things. The Money Czars, who
control the news media, figure if they can keep us ignorant of
the facts, they can buffalo us into a lifetime of work and pay
taxes -- work and pay taxes -- work and pay taxes.

   You can do what you wish, but millions of people have already
said, "Enough!" and have become tax rebels. Most groups call
themselves "tax patriots." It is certainly an apt name. Leslie
Snyder in her book Justice or Revolution wrote, "To become a tax
rebel at this time is one's patriotic duty."

              THE TAX REBELLION IS BIG AND GROWING

   1972 -- Secretary of the Treasury john Connelly declared that
a survey found that in the southeastern part of the United
States, 97 percent of all returns prepared by tax preparers were
fraudulent and that the government was powerless to prosecute
because of the enormous number of delinquents; and another
official declared that in other parts of the country, the fraud
was even worse. (By cheating on their tax returns these
taxpayers are rebelling; they just haven't had the nerve to go
all the way.)

   1973 -- IRS Commissioner Johnnie Walters admitted the tax
strike was frightening -- that the number of fraud cases
increased 4000 percent in three years. If the IRS admitted to
that many, it's a sure bet the number of cases is much higher.)

   1975 -- More than 100 million persons paid into Social
Security for that year. Yet, there were only 82,177,000 income
tax returns; and of these only 61,753,000 paid any tax. (1977 SA
p. 259) let's put it another way; In 1975, nearly 38 million
workers paid no federal income taxes and 18 million didn't even
file. Since that time, the tax rebellion has grown tremendously.
This is due to three reasons:

   1) More people have learned how to legally defend themselves
against the criminal acts committed by the IRS and are no longer
afraid to be a tax rebel.

   2) The depressed state of the economy has forced many
taxpayers to decide whether to pay the IRS or to feed their
families. They decide the welfare of their families comes first.

   3) Since the tax rebellion has grown so large, the chances of
IRS prosecution is very small, especially if the taxpayer knows
how to defend him or herself.

                    THE IRS OPERATES ON FEAR

   The reason there hasn't been a mass tax rebellion before now
is "fear."

   A common reaction of the uninformed taxpayer is, "They (IRS)
will put me in jail." The news media cooperates in creating this
fear. During the period preceding April 15th, the deadline for
paying taxes, it can be expected the news media will play up the
conviction of a tax patriot. Oddly, nothing is mentioned of the
MILLIONS of others who are defying the IRS.

   This fear among the taxpayers is largely unwarranted. Note
this statement by Senator Bellmon of Oklahoma, speaking before a
Senate Committee a few years ago:

   "In a recent conversation, with an official at the Internal
Revenue Service, I was amazed when He told me, 'If the taxpayers
of this country ever discover that the Internal Revenue Service
operates on 90 percent bluff, the entire income tax system will
collapse.'"

   Did you get that? just in case you didn't, here it is again:

   Senator Bellmon of Oklahoma speaking before a Senate
Committee said, "IN A RECENT CONVERSATION WITH AN OFFICIAL AT
THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE, I WAS AMAZED WHEN HE TOLD ME, 'IF
THE TAXPAYERS OF THIS COUNTRY EVER DISCOVER THAT THE INTERNAL
REVENUE SERVICE OPERATES IN 90 PERCENT BLUFF, THE ENTIRE INCOME
SYSTEM WILL COLLAPSE.'"

   As far as the IRS putting anyone in jail, forget it! The IRS
can't put anyone in jail for not paying income taxes. Only a
JURY can do that; and that leads us to the ultimate solution to
the income tax scam.

   Even if the taxpayers learn their rights and exert them, the
IRS will break every law on the books to try to "railroad" a FEW
individuals in order to create FEAR among the rest; and the
judges practically always play along with the IRS criminals. The
judges even break a few laws themselves in the process of
helping the IRS.

   Due to the high-handed criminal manner in which judges now
run trials involving tax rebels, there is only one PEACEFUL way
to stop them. The best way to explain it is to tell the "Montana
Story."

                        THE MONTANA STORY

   In July of 1979, the IRS put out a news release which was
carried by newspapers across the state of Montana. It said that
it was very risky to be a tax protestor because the IRS had won
twelve of thirteen cases tried in courts by juries in the
previous two years. The news release was designed to create FEAR
among the taxpayers of Montana.

   A few months after the news of these convictions hit the
papers, a disgusted taxpayer, Martin L. (Red) Beckman and some
of his patriotic friends went to work to put out a TV special
called "People and Taxes." This TV special was shown across the
state of Montana and it woke up a lot of people.

   In January of the following year, 1980, Red Beckman made
another TV special, "People-Controlled Government." This also,
was shown across the state.

   the result of these TV Specials was that in 1980 the IRS lost
four out of five cases tried before a jury; and since that time,
in 1981, 1982, and so far in 1983, there have been NO
convictions of a tax rebel brought before a jury. In fact, the
IRS has been able to get only three indictments of which I am
aware -- and the IRS has lost all of these.

   How did this all happen? Well, Red Beckman in the TV specials
told the truth -- something our news media and schools were
supposed to be doing. Basically, this is what Red Beckman was
saying: Through the power of the jury, the people are the final
judge of whether a law is just or not just. An unconstitutional
law is in reality "no law." No one is bound to obey an
unconstitutional law and no courts are bound to enforce it.

   In a jury trial, just one jurist voting "not guilty" can
nullify any law.

   In a jury trial, the "Jury is the Judge." The judge is merely
the headmaster on charge of proceedings.

   When the jurists leave the courtroom to decide on the guilt
or innocence of a accused person, they are completely out of the
reach of the judge. Regardless of what the judge told them
regarding his interpretation of the law and the criteria on
which they could base their decision, the JURY IS FREE TO DECIDE
AS THEY PLEASE AND NO EXPLANATION IS NECESSARY.

   In a jury trial, if one person feels the law under which a
defendant is charged is unjust for whatever reason, he and she
HAS THE RIGHT TO VOTE "NOT GUILTY," the one "Not Guilty" vote
causes a hung jury.

   It has become common practice for the courts to try to pack
the jury with the people who are in the "Hen House" with the
enemies of America, but it takes only one person with concern
for his or her country and fellow neighbor voting "Not guilty"
to protect this fellow countryman from a bad law and from those
who try to enforce it.

   One person on a trial jury has more power than Congress, the
President, and the Supreme Court put together. Congress can pass
a law, the President can sigh it, and the Supreme Court can
uphold it. BUT -- one person sitting on a trial jury can vote
"Not Guilty" and the law has been nullified.

   Red Beckman, affectionately known as "Montana's Fighting
Redhead" has been traveling into many other states showing these
TV specials, and the American people are finally finding out how
they can completely stop the IRS and other government agencies
that are making life miserable for the average Americans.

   Like Gordon Kahl, Mr. Beckman believes everyone should pay
their fair share of taxes. he also believes, "We are committing
national suicide. we are destroying ourselves by allowing tax
consumers (government officials) to decide what is a fair share.
We also give our consent when fear and force is used by tax
consumers (government officials) to collect taxes. This is
insanity which is discouraging the production of jobs and
wealth."

   Red is solution oriented, and his best selling book, Born
Again republic, and now, So Unto the IRS as They Would Do Unto
You, were written to help the people stop the insanity which
grips our tax-consuming public servants. We can protect each
other by using our Grand Jury and Trial Jury votes to control
our government.

   One of the saddest situations has been that too many
ministers in the churches have been telling their parishioners
that it is their duty to pay the income tax. Some have done so
out of ignorance -- completely unaware that the income tax is
illegal, unnecessary, and destructive to the economy; some are
spineless and fear that if they speak out, they will lose their
tax-exempt status; and others are intentially misleading their
congregations. Red Beckman calls them all "Pious Puppets." These
ministers are speaking in the name of God; and yet; by urging
the payment of income tax, they are serving the goals of the
Money Czars whose intentions and actions are Anti-Christ.

   One must especially suspect the ministers on TV who say we
must pay the income tax. Certainly, if they told the truth
during their programs, the Money Czars who own the TV networks
would boot these "Pious Puppets" off the air. One must wonder
which god they are serving -- our Heavenly Father or the Money
Czars.

   However, a heartening development is taking place of late. A
growing number of ministers have become aware that the main
intent of the income tax is to control the productive class of
Americans, and they are speaking out. Some are openly urging
their parishioners to refuse to pay this scourge of the working
people.

     WHERE CAN YOU GET IMMEDIATE HELP IN COMBATING THE IRS?

   There are many publications devoted to the tax rebellion --
too many to list here. So, I'll give you the two best-known
ones:

JUSTICE TIMES, P.O. BOX 562, Clinton, Ar 72031

T.R.U.E., P.O. BOX 424, Altadena, CA 91001

   The tax rebellion has grown so large, and because so many
organizations fighting the illegal income tax have been started,
it would take a large book to even begin to tell the story. It
is not the intent of this booklet to tell the whole story; it is
merely intended to counteract the lies put out by the IRS and
the national news media "parrots" and to steer you in the right
direction.

   Many good organizations place ads in the two above
newspapers. But, a word of caution -- like any group of
organizations, there are GOOD ONES and there are some that are
NOT SO GOOD. So, do some checking.

   Well, fellas and gals, that's a birds-eye view of what the
tax rebellion is all about. It's a lot different from what
you've been getting from TV, radio, and the daily newspapers,
isn't it? But remember, the various big-time news media is owned
or otherwise controlled by the Money Czars; and they tell us
only what they want us to believe.

   We've been taken for suckers, haven't we?

            PRIVATE BANKERS CONTROL U.S. MONEY SYSTEM

   In telling about the illegal and destructive income tax, it
is appropriate, even necessary, for you to know about another
cute trick the Money Czars put over on us that same year, 1913.
They succeeded in getting Congress to pass the Federal Reserve
Act.

   Now remember, 1913 was the same year the Money Czars stuck us
with the income tax.

   The year 1913 was the bad one for us average Americans but
one for the Money Czars. The income tax gave them the right to
STEAL from us, and the Federal Reserve gave them the right to
CREATE MONEY, OUT OF NOTHING! Thats right -- out of nothing!

   Our U.S. Constitution states that Congress has the power to
coin money and regulate the value thereof. But, in 1913,
Congress gave the private bankers that power. Put simply,
Congress gave these Money Czars the power to create money out of
nothing and then LEND IT TO OUR GOVERNMENT -- and even CHARGE US
INTEREST ON IT!

   Now, the Federal Reserve is a corporation, NOT an agency of
our government; and it has been learned that the income tax is
collected by a private corporation, NOT an agency of our
government. It seems that Money Czars and their agents have been
mighty busy screwing s while we have been busting our butts
trying to operate under their private money-making scheme.

   Your local banker operates under the same system. When you
finance the purchase of a house for instance, the banks don't
lend you any money, they just credit your account with "X"
number of so-called dollars, and you can write checks on it.
It's a case of fancy paper shuffling by your local friendly (??)
banker. Yet, you are required to pay them the amount they
created out of nothing -- plus interest.

   President Andrew Jackson in the 1830's said, "You bankers are
a bunch of vipers and I will rout you out. If the American
people should ever find out how you operate, there would be a
revolution before morning."

   I'll bet you didn't learn any of this in school or from the
daily newspapers.

   The bandits for the Money Czars (the IRS) and the banks are
"bed partners." How many of you have had the IRS come into the
bank where you do business and take funds out of your account?
It's illegal, but it's done anyway.

   Then too, the IRS can go into the bank and get a record of
your deposits and checks you have written and, from this, figure
out what you would owe in income tax -- without this
information, the IRS would have a hell of a time building a case
against you; and believe me, sooner or later the IRS agents will
be knocking on your door in an effort to "suck" as much money
from you as they can.

   Because the banks and the IRS are sleeping in the same bed,
people who know the score have stopped doing business with any
banks.

   It is true, withdrawing from banking does create a problem;
but there is an alternative to doing business with your FRIENDLY
(?) local banker.

   The alternative banking method has the advantage of providing
privacy from the IRS and other snoopy government agencies. Also,
the money on deposit is backed with silver, which is more than
you can say for the regular banks.

   Take special note: When the nation's economy finally takes a
dive, the silver-backed deposits you have in the alternative
banking system will be worth much more than when you made the
deposit. BUT -- anyone who has their earnings deposited in the
regular banks -- well, tough going, Buddy -- your deposits are
backed by NOTHING. The piddling F.D.I.C. won't even cover an
ant's eye worth of the lost deposits. For information on this
alternative banking, send me a self-addressed envelope at P.O.
Box 1015, Detroit Lakes, MN 56501.

   There is a strong move to force Congress to get rid of the
Federal Reserve -- to take back the control of our nation's
money supply from the Money Czars.

   Wouldn't it be nice to be able to borrow money without having
to pay a high rate of interest? OK, then write to Jim Townsend,
Editor, National Educator, P.O. Box 333, 1110 South Panora
Avenue, Fullerton, CA 92632.

            LAW OFFICERS NOT UPHOLDING OATH OF OFFICE

   In counties where the Sheriff upholds his oath of office, he
welcomes the assistance of the Posse Comitatus. In counties
where the sheriff gets involved in shady activities, he
naturally doesn't want to have a posse group organized. He wants
to keep breaking the law without opposition.

   In recent years there has been an alarming change in the
attitude and actions of the law enforcement officials from the
F.B.I. and U.S. marshals down to the county sheriffs and city
police. They seem to have fallen under the influence of the
Money Czars and have become, in effect, their private police
force. This is particularly true when it comes to going after
tax protesters. It is also true in the case of farm foreclosures
which is nothing more than theft by the Money Czars and their
"agents." This gets into the illegality of our money which is a
ROTTEN MESS that I can't even begin to explain it in this short
pamphlet; but the sheriff is INVOLVED in helping the Money Czars
in their dirty work. You see, it has now become one of the main
duties of the county sheriff to be "errand boy" for LAW-BREAKING
JUDGES. So it is understandable that the sheriffs do not want a
posse around to see that they uphold the law; nor do judges want
them around for the same reason.

   Since, in recent years, law enforcement officers are not
upholding their oath of office, which is to uphold the
Constitution, the Posse Comitatus groups have been viewed by
law-breaking officers and judges as enemies and have been
treated as such.

            MONEY CZARS USE LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS

   It would be wrong to accuse all persons entering the U.S.
Marshal's Service or the F.B.I. as having the criminal intent to
help destroy America. Certainly, to get a government job is the
goal of many average Americans. The jobs are secure, the pay is
good, and there are many side benefits. People working in the
private industry must work up to 45 years before being able to
retire with any type of pension, but a government employee can
work as little as twenty years to retire with excellent
benefits. So the enticement to enter government service is great
indeed. this is especially true in such positions as those with
the F.B.I. and the U.S. Marshal's Service. But --

   After serving in these law enforcement positions for a period
of time, these officials often find their duties quite different
from what they imagined. They find their efforts to apprehend
criminals hampered by restrictive laws to protect the criminal
rather than the law-abiding citizens. They also find that a big
part of their job is to carry out acts if suppression against
people who are trying to expose and stop the criminal,
unconstitutional acts by government officials and others of
influence. They are required to carry out illegal acts against
patriotic individuals -- even conduct clandestine acts such as
the attack on Gordon Kahl at Medina, North Dakota.

   Facing the alternative of either committing such an un-
American, even treasonous acts OR giving up their good
government jobs, most choose to obey the order. It is amazing
the depths to which some people sill stoop for financial gain.

   There are many "BAD" law enforcement officers who know that
what they are doing is wrong and seem to relish doing it.  But
in all honesty, it must be said that most are innocently unaware
that they are being USED to weaken America -- in the case of tax
rebels, for instance. These officers believe that the income tax
is legal and necessary. So, they help the IRS "goon squads" zero
in on a law abiding citizens rather than protect the citizen.

                          AID AND ABET

   There is an excellent newsletter to which every law
enforcement officer should subscribe. In fact, it is a
newsletter that EVERY American should read. It is called "AID
and ABET." What makes it so potent is that it is written for law
enforcement officers by a man who, for six years, has been a law
enforcement officer. This concerned officer is Jack McLamb. What
Mr. McLamb writes is so relative to what is happening in the law
enforcement field in America that it is my hope that a copy
reaches the eyes of every mature American. here is a part of his
"AID and ABET" #3:

   "Brother and Sister Officers, you and I are being played for
fools! We are being used to commit illegal acts against our
country and fellow citizens under the pretext of serving and
protecting society.

   "We are being kept uninformed as to the real dangers facing
America today. I am about to share some information with you
that will shock you. When I'm through, you will be burning mad
at some of our state and national leaders.

   "How do I know this? Because I reacted the SAME WAY, and so
have many of our fellow officers who are now INFORMED as to the
treacherous plans that have been put into action in America -- a
plan in which we have played a very important part so far, and,
if not stopped, in which we will play a MAJOR role in the near
future.

   "When you are through digesting this information, you will
have this compelling drive to prove it FALSE, to put it out of
your mind. And that's good...because, if you are the kind of
American as the officers I've been working with for over six
years, you will not even be able to sleep, you will not even be
able to SLEEP until you find out some ANSWERS as to HOW this
could happen in our beloved country.

   "...if, after you read this letter, the first thing out of
your mouth isn't "THEY'LL NOT GET AWAY WITH THIS WHILE THERE IS
A BREATH LEFT IN MY BODY!!!...you don't deserve to be called a
law officer, much less an American."

   Later in the newsletter he writes, "How many of us (lawmen)
have gone to WAR and faced the ENEMY on another shore, believing
we were insuring our families' continued right to FREEDOM here
in America? How many of us have clutched a dying friend to our
breast during the last few seconds of his life on some faraway,
bloody battlefield? Many lawmen have. And, what is so amazing is
that these traitors to America are using US (many of whom are
VETS) as their "ENFORCERS" against fellow countrymen."

   Jack McLamb has also written a booklet entitled "Sanction
America." It's great! I'd like to print the whole booklet for
you, but space prohibits doing this, so I'll just print some of
the key material:

   "...if one were really to get down into history books, they
would find that on every occasion where a country was subverted
and the citizens put into slavery by their own government
leaders...the 'local police'...(those who were the neighbors and
relatives of 'those enslaved') were the FORCE ('army') that was
used to control and check any attempts by their fellow citizens
from regaining control of their government.

   "It is at this time...that I, as one of those on the
'INSIDE', (serving as one of the SUBROSA government's
'ENFORCERS') must inform you...that any hope of the patriots
winning back our 'Land of the Free,' WITHOUT BLOODSHED, IS
ALMOST AT AN END!"

   But, "At this moment, there IS STILL TIME to take back
control of our lives and government by 'non-violent' means..."

   It is "...the sincere HOPE that by UNITING the people to
stand against these evil men who have gained control of our
economy and government, we may still, in a 'NON-VIOLENT MANNER,'
take back our and our children's sacred heritage before it is
too late!"

   Jack McLamb has done a terrific job in awakening his fellow
officer. Now, he asks that we join in helping. Since law
enforcement has a key position in the PRESERVATION OR LOSS of
our freedoms, I am reprinting his request:

   "There are many good, INFORMED patriots in every community in
the U.S., but many do not know that there is 'NOW' a method of
reaching into their local law enforcement agencies with the
TRUTH. They must be aware of our plan for CRIPPLING the
OPPOSITION'S ARMY and restoring it to the PEOPLE.

   "NOW, BE SURE TO GET THIS...if even one fourth of one percent
of the millions of patriots across this land would 'PLANT A
SEED'...by donating a year's subscription of 'AID and ABET'
NEWSLETTERS for Lawmen to one of their local police officers, in
just a few months the PLANNED TAKE OVER OF AMERICA WOULD
'LITERALLY COLLAPSE.'

                           THINK OF IT

   "If the patriots acted on this request, every police officer
would have read of this PLANNED DESTRUCTION! FIFTY PERCENT WOULD
TAKE IMMEDIATE STEPS TO STOP THEIR OWN ACTIONS OF SUPPORT FOR
THESE TRAITORS! Other officers, who are 'PROFESSIONAL
FOLLOWERS,' would soon FOLLOW THEIR LEAD! REMEMBER, these guys
and gals are already GOOD AMERICANS, they just are MISDIRECTED!

   "So...what in God' Green Earth could the PLANNERS enforce
without their OBEDIENT ENFORCERS'? What could they do? If the
President used his secret 'Executive Orders' to declare 'MARTIAL
LAW,' because the patriots (THE PEOPLE), started demanding a
CONSTITUTIONAL FORM OF GOVERNMENT instead of the current style,
WHO WOULD ENFORCE IT UPON THE PEOPLE...?

   "If the I.R.S. came out to 'fraudulently' take YOUR business,
trailer, farm, or house -- 'IMAGINE' your local 'friends and
neighbors,' THE POLICE, arresting THEM for CONSPIRACY and
attempted THEFT.

   "Is it not TIME WE UNITE AND REGAIN WHAT IS RIGHTFULLY OURS?

   "Join with us as we reach out to our fellow American lawmen
and save them from the grips of the WORLD PLANNERS. And in so
doing, 'strike a blow' at the very heart of their "WELL OILED
SOCIAL MACHINE."

   "SOUND EXCITING? Let me tell you, I have never, NEVER done
ANYTHING in the Constitutional movement that warms the cockles
of this ole patriots heart MORE than FINALLY hitting these
SUCKERS where it really HURTS! I LOVE IT, AND YOU WILL TOO!"

                           Yours in Freedom,
                           Officer Jack J. McLamb

  Ok, now. Take that first step. Help Jack McLamb, help
yourself, and help America: order Issue #3 of "AID and ABET."
Just send $1.00 to AID and ABET, P.O. BOX 8787, Phoenix AZ
85066.

   The importance of Officer McLamb's efforts to alert his
fellow officers cannot be over emphasized. certainly, if law
enforcement officers continue to so the bidding of the Money
Czars and supress the actions of patriotic Americans, the Money
Czars will have ALL of America in their web.

   Evidence indicates that at least some of the U.S. Marshals
who attacked Gordon Kahl at Medina did so knowing that they were
acting unlawfully. As a result of this unlawful act initiated by
the U.S. Marshals or on the orders from higher up, Gordon Kahl
is dead and three others are in prison.

   It can hardly be denied that Gordon Kahl and the three
imprisoned victims of Medina were defending themselves in the
unwarranted and illegal attack. During the attack, Gordon Kahl
admirably acted to protect the lives of his son and friends.
Yet, in spite of all the evidence proving the U.S. Marshals
acted illegally, the government took the attitude that two U.S.
Marshals are dead and SOMEONE MUST BE BLAMED.

   Regarding the deaths of the two U.S. marshals who obviously
were acting unlawfully, thee are two interesting court cases for
us average Americans to seriously consider:

   "Citizens may resist unlawful arrest to the point of taking
the Officers life if necessary": Plummer V. State, 135 Ind 308.
The U.S. Supreme Court has upheld this ruling twice after
citizens killed officers in this manner: John Bad Elk V. U.S.
(1900) 177 U.S. 529; L.S. V. Di Re (1948) 332 U.S. 581.

   "An arrest made with defective warrant; or one issues without
warrant; or one issued without affidavit; or one that fails to
allege a crime is without jurisdiction, and one who is being
arrested may RESIST ARREST AND BREAK AWAY. If the arresting
officer is killed by one so resisting, the killing will be no
more than an involuntary manslaughter": Housh V. People 75 III
491; reaffirmed and quoted in State V. Leach, 7 Conn 452; State
V. Gleason, 32 Kan 245.

   Yet, in spite of the court cases, the Benson Court in Fargo,
North Dakota, found the three victims guilty. In view of the
attack at Medina, and the trial that followed, we law-abiding,
freedom loving Americans evidently face two critical,
interlocking conditions:

   1) Many law enforcement officers (some knowingly, some
      unknowingly) are breaking the law in taking aggressive
      actions against patriots, who are trying to force, in a
      peaceful manner, our government officials to operate under
      Constitutional Law.

   2) U.S. Attorneys and federal district judges are acting in
      support of the law enforcement officers who commit these
      illegal, aggressive acts. (Again, I repeat Red Beckman's
      charge, "The U.S. attorneys and federal district judges
      are the greatest coverup gang in history.")

   If law enforcement officers, backed by the courts, are
allowed to continue to engage in illegal acts, we law-abiding
citizens don't have a chance of stopping the Money Czars. In
viewing the critical situation. There seems to be three
alternatives facing us: 1. Surrender to the Money Czars and
their agents; 2. Resort to Firearms; 3. Help Jack McLamb wake up
his fellow law enforcement officers. Personally, I prefer number
3.

   Many people are buying copies of Officer McLamb's newsletters
and giving them to their local officers, but first get one for
yourself. It'll open your eyes.

   If Jack McLamb's newsletter "AID and ABET" continues to
expand in circulation, law enforcement will once again hold the
respect of the American Citizenry. With law enforcement
officials upholding the law, the Posse Comitatus can once again
take its rightful place in helping the Sheriff protect the
citizens of their counties.

             MEDINA BLUNDER STARTS NEWS MEDIA SMEAR

   The attack on Gordon Kahl at Median backfired; so the various
"agents" of the Money Czars started a smear campaign in order to
try to cover up their crimes. They referred to Gordon Kahl and
ALL tax rebels in derogatory terms; and since Gordon had once
been involved in the Posse Comitatus, the "agents" also started
to slander the Posse.

   It is understandable that the Money Czars want to stop the
Posse Comitatus movement because the Posse is one of the most
powerful forces standing in the way of a takeover of the United
States by the Money Czars.

   I was told by one high-ranking Posse member that right now
they are strong enough to stop a take over of our country.

   One other Posse leader said, "To ensure the freedoms of our
country, EVERY MAN AND WOMAN fifteen years and over should have
a gun and know how to use it -- AND BE WILLING TO USE IT IF
NECESSARY. ONLY THEN CAN WE BE SURE OF KEEPING OUR COUNTRY
FREE."

   His assistant added, "It is also necessary to know who the
enemy 'agents' are."

              OTHER DEFENDERS OF AMERICA'S FREEDOM

   The Posse Comitatus is a formidable force in stopping the
enemy forces trying to destroy America. But there are others.

   One is made of fairly young men who have had their eyes
opened. They are the veterans of the Viet Nam War. They got a
royal screwing by the Money Czars and their "agents" who planned
and directed that war.

   These Viet Nam veterans are organized in many areas of the
country. They realize that the Money Czars can cause a collapse
of the economy in America any time they wish and are only
waiting until the time is ideal. Realizing this, they are
getting prepared.

   In North Dakota these Viet Nam War veterans wouldn't come to
any of our meetings. They were in agreement with what we were
doing, but they didn't want to be known. We were assured they
are armed and ready.

   The strength of this Viet Nam War veteran force is unknown to
me, and it is well that it remains secretive. What the
anti-american Money Czars and their "agents" don't know is to
the advantage of the pro-American forces.

     Another major force designed to stop the Money Czars and
their "agents" is even more secretive. It is known as
"Leaderless Resistance" or more commonly as "Phantom Teams."

   In any organization there is always the danger of
infiltration by "agents" of the Money Czars. To avoid this
danger the "Phantom teams" movement was initiated. This is the
way it works:

   Two to four persons, who know and trust each other, decide to
form a "team." The number is to exceed no more than four people.
No one outside their "team" knows that it is in existence. the
purpose of the "team" is to work together to protect their
families in case of an ATTEMPTED TAKEOVER. But their actions
are also aggressive in nature -- to take action at an opportune
time. This action may be the destruction of property of an
"agent" or even "eliminating" that agent. These "teams" operate
individually and anything they decide to do is entirely on their
own.

   Then there is the "33" and the many similar militant groups,
highly organized and highly trained.

   A new welcome force is emerging to bolster the fight against
the anti-american forces. It is made up of segments of the
religious community headed in many cases by members of the
clergy.

   Many religious people have become disgusted with the
"watering down" of their denomination and the lack of "guts" on
the part of most of the clergy to face the dangers facing
religion in general and their parishioners in particular. Large
numbers have dropped out of their churches. Even the once-strong
bond of Catholics to their church has been broken and new
militant Catholic churches formed. Their strength is kept
secret, and this seems to be worrying the Money Czars and their
"agents."

                       THE POSSE COMITATUS

   Until the attack by U.S. marshals and other law officers at
Medina, North Dakota, most people in America had never heard of
the Posse Comitatus.

   Because, at one time, Gordon Kahl had been involved in Posse
Comitatus activities, the "agents" of the Money Czars used the
Medina blunder by the marshals as an opportunity to smear the
Posse groups -- just as they did the tax rebels.

   What you read in the daily newspapers about the Posse
Comitatus is just what the Money Czars wanted printed; and since
they control the news media, they can print (any and) all the
bull chips they want. So, what IS the truth about the Posse
Comitatus? You can just about imagine that it is 100% opposite
from what the "funny" boys are saying.

              THE TRUTH ABOUT THE POSSE COMITATUS

   The legality of the Posse Comitatus goes back to the
beginning of out country's history. It is based on Common Law --
the same base as that upon which our U.S. Constitution was
written.

   Early in our country's history, it was common for a country
sheriff to call on men in their country to help enforce the law.
It was, and STILL IS, the right of the sheriff of a county to
call on any male in the county between the ages of 15 and 55 to
help enforce the law; those older than 55 could volunteer. This
group of sheriff's deputies is called the Posse Comitatus which,
in Latin, means "power of the county."

   It can be expected that occasionally a county elects a
sheriff that does not do his duty. In this case the Posse can
take action. But first, the Posse must ask the county coroner to
issue an arrest warrant. If the coroner refuses, the Posse has
the right to arrest the sheriff and take him before a jury for
trial.

              "AGENTS" OF THE MONEY CZARS FEAR GUNS

   There are some individuals who are outspoken in their
intentions. One eastern North Dakota tax rebel was last visited
in 1969. At that time he said to the IRS agents who visited him,
"Do you see those guns hanging on the wall? The next time you
come through my door, they'll carry you out feet first." It has
been over fourteen years; and no IRS agents have dared to go
back, because they know he meant what he said. He confided to
me, "I know that when our country falls, they (the "agents" of
the Money Czars) will be out to get me; but you can be damn sure
I'll get some of those bastards first."

   While most are not as outspoken as he, there are many who are
planning to so the same as the above described tax rebel.

   In all the operations I have discussed, there is one thing
they all have in common: those involved realize that the
greatest danger we face is from within and the only way to stop
a takeover by the Money Czars and their "agents" is to be
prepared -- armed prepared-ness.

   The jokers who are trying to shut down the Posse Comitatus
are the same bunch of anti-Americans who are behind the move to
take away guns from law-abiding citizens.

   IF THEY SHOULD SUCCEED, WE WILL BE IN NO BETTER SHAPE THAN
THE PEOPLE IN POLAND. IF IT WERE NOT FOR THE FACT THAT MILLIONS
OF AMERICANS HAVE GUNS, THE MONEY CZARS WOULD HAVE HAD US IN
COMPLETE BONDAGE YEARS AGO.

   An "Agent" is anyone that acts in an unconstitutional, un-
American manner. To this must be added certain segments of the
educational system that have intentionally been feeding lies to
the American people and to members of the mass news media who
distort or omit important events and information.

                        BLOODSHED LIKELY

   The patriotic Americans who are striving to stop the anti-
American forces working from within and without the country are
trying to do so by legal means. But, since the Money Czars and
their "agents" are so entrenched and so close to accomplishing
their goal, there are a good number of patriots who believe that
bloodshed cannot be avoided because they feel the Money Czars
and their 'agents" will not back off peacefully. the hope and
aim is to minimize the bloodshed. Realizing that bloodshed is
inevitable, they want to make sure that the blood that is shed
will be that of the 'agents" and not their own.

   Alexandyr Solzhenitsyn the Russian author, wrote words to the
effect that when the Bolsheviks were taking over Russia, they
cowered. They were afraid they would be next. They hoped it
would all blow over. Once in prison, they thought about the
things they could have done to stop the Bolsheviks.

   In America, most people are like those Russians; but they are
millions who are already aware of the aims of the Money Czars
and are prepared to do whatever is necessary to stop them. It is
this group of modern-day patriots who offer hope that the United
States of America will not experience the fate that fell upon
Russia.

                      * * * * * * * * * * *

   The IRS agents and other agents of the Money Czars called
Gordon Kahl a "radical tax protestor" and a member of the "anti-
government Posse Comitatus" and other "bad guy" names. After
reading just the information in this little booklet, you can
decide who is the "bad guy" -- Gordon Kahl or the Money Czars
and their "agents" -- plus most of the news media characters
who, like parrots, repeatedly use these "bad guy" labels.

   It is better to fight while there is a chance of winning,
than to wait and be forced to fight when all hope is lost.
