*****  Reformatted.  Please distribute



            CLINTON/GORE ON GUN CONTROL



Every year, more than 20,000 Americans are killed
with handguns; many thousands more are injured.  A
large and growing number of these victims are
killed by semi-automatic assault weapons which have
no legitimate sporting purpose.  The streets of our
cities have become gun bazaars.  We must make them
safe again.

The large majority of gun owners are law-abiding
citizens who use their guns in a responsible
manner.  Bill Clinton and Al Gore know that the
Constitution guarantees an individuals basic right
to keep and bear arms, and they will uphold that
right.

Support the Brady Bill

Sign the Brady Bill, which mandates a 5-day waiting
period for handgun purchases to allow police
sufficient time to determine whether intended
purchasers are underage or have criminal
backgrounds, drug histories, or mental health
histories.  Al Gore was a primary author and
cosponsor of the Senate version of the Brady Bill,
which includes a background check.  Bill Clinton
has endorsed the Brady Bill.

Ban assault weapons

*    Ban semi-automatic assault weapons that have
     no legitimate hunting purpose and support the
     right of local law enforcement officials to
     ban such weapons when gangs move into their
     neighborhoods.

*    Limit access to multiple-round clips like the
     ones used in the tragic killings in Killeen,
     Texas.

Get tough on crime

*    Create a National Police Corps and offer
     veterans and active military personnel a
     chance to become law enforcement officers at
     home.  This will add 100,000 new police
     officers to the streets.

*    Enact tougher sentences for criminals who use
     guns.

*    Implement a federal program for safe schools
     so children can concentrate on learning.

*    Create boot camps for first-time non-violent
     offenders.

*    Develop strong anti-gang initiatives, and
     empower public housing residents to get rid of
     drug dealers.
