A JEWISH DEFECTOR WARNS AMERICA:
Benjamin Freedman Speaks

by Benjamin H. Freedman


Introductory Note

Benjamin H. Freedman was one of the most intriguing and amazing 
individuals of the 20th century. Mr. Freedman, born in 1890, was a 
successful Jewish businessman of New York City who was at one time 
the principal owner of the Woodbury Soap Company. He broke with 
organized Jewry after the Judeo-Communist victory of 1945, and spent 
the remainder of his life and the great preponderance of his considerable 
fortune, at least 2.5 million dollars, exposing the Jewish tyranny which 
has enveloped the United States. 

Mr. Freedman knew what he was talking about because he had been an 
insider at the highest levels of Jewish organizations and Jewish 
machinations to gain power over our nation. Mr. Freedman was 
personally acquainted with Bernard Baruch, Samuel Untermyer, 
Woodrow Wilson, Franklin Roosevelt, Joseph Kennedy, and John F. 
Kennedy, and many more movers and shakers of our times. 

This speech was given before a patriotic audience in 1961 at the Willard 
Hotel in Washington, D.C., on behalf of Conde McGinley's patriotic 
newspaper of that time, Common Sense. Though in some minor ways 
this wide-ranging and extemporaneous speech has become dated, Mr. 
Freedman's essential message to us -- his warning to the West -- is more 
urgent than ever before. -- K.A.S.

*

HERE IN THE UNITED STATES, the Zionists and their co-religionists 
have complete control of our government. For many reasons, too many 
and too complex to go into here at this time, the Zionists and their co-
religionists rule these United States as though they were the absolute 
monarchs of this country. Now you may say that is a very broad 
statement, but let me show you what happened while we were all asleep.

What happened? World War I broke out in the summer of 1914. There 
are few people here my age who remember that. Now that war was 
waged on one side by Great Britain, France, and Russia; and on the other 
side by Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Turkey.

Within two years Germany had won that war: not only won it nominally, 
but won it actually. The German submarines, which were a surprise to 
the world, had swept all the convoys from the Atlantic Ocean.

Great Britain stood there without ammunition for her soldiers, with one 
week's food supply -- and after that, starvation. At that time, the French 
army had mutinied. They had lost 600,000 of the flower of French youth 
in the defense of Verdun on the Somme. The Russian army was 

defecting, they were picking up their toys and going home, they didn't 
want to play war anymore, they didn't like the Tsar. And the Italian army 
had collapsed.

Not a shot had been fired on German soil. Not one enemy soldier had 
crossed the border into Germany. And yet, Germany was offering 
England peace terms. They offered England a negotiated peace on what 
the lawyers call a status quo ante basis. That means: "Let's call the war 
off, and let everything be as it was before the war started." England, in 
the summer of 1916 was considering that -- seriously. They had no 
choice. It was either accepting this negotiated peace that Germany was 
magnanimously offering them, or going on with the war and being 
totally defeated.

While that was going on, the Zionists in Germany, who represented the 
Zionists from Eastern Europe, went to the British War Cabinet and -- I 
am going to be brief because it's a long story, but I have all the 
documents to prove any statement that I make -- they said: "Look here. 
You can yet win this war. You don't have to give up. You don't have to 
accept the negotiated peace offered to you now by Germany. You can 
win this war if the United States will come in as your ally." 

The United States was not in the war at that time. We were fresh; we 
were young; we were rich; we were powerful. They told England: "We 
will guarantee to bring the United States into the war as your ally, to 
fight with you on your side, if you will promise us Palestine after you 
win the war." 

In other words, they made this deal: "We will get the United States into 
this war as your ally. The price you must pay is Palestine after you have 
won the war and defeated Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Turkey." 
Now England had as much right to promise Palestine to anybody, as the 
United States would have to promise Japan to Ireland for any reason 
whatsoever. It's absolutely absurd that Great Britain, that never had any 
connection or any interest or any right in what is known as Palestine 
should offer it as coin of the realm to pay the Zionists for bringing the 
United States into the war. 

However, they did make that promise, in October of 1916. And shortly 
after that -- I don't know how many here remember it -- the United 
States, which was almost totally pro-German, entered the war as Britain's 
ally.

I say that the United States was almost totally pro-German because the 
newspapers here were controlled by Jews, the bankers were Jews, all the 
media of mass communications in this country were controlled by Jews; 
and they, the Jews, were pro-German. They were pro-German because 
many of them had come from Germany, and also they wanted to see 
Germany lick the Tsar. The Jews didn't like the Tsar, and they didn't 
want Russia to win this war. These German-Jew bankers, like Kuhn Loeb 
and the other big banking firms in the United States refused to finance 
France or England to the extent of one dollar. They stood aside and they 
said: "As long as France and England are tied up with Russia, not one 
cent!" But they poured money into Germany, they fought beside 
Germany against Russia, trying to lick the Tsarist regime.

Now those same Jews, when they saw the possibility of getting Palestine, 
went to England and they made this deal. At that time, everything 
changed, like a traffic light that changes from red to green. Where the 
newspapers had been all pro-German, where they'd been telling the 
people of the difficulties that Germany was having fighting Great Britain 
commercially and in other respects, all of a sudden the Germans were no 
good. They were villains. They were Huns. They were shooting Red 
Cross nurses. They were cutting off babies' hands. They were no good. 
Shortly after that, Mr. Wilson declared war on Germany.

The Zionists in London had sent cables to the United States, to Justice 
Brandeis, saying "Go to work on President Wilson. We're getting from 
England what we want. Now you go to work on President Wilson and get 
the United States into the war." That's how the United States got into the 
war. We had no more interest in it; we had no more right to be in it than 
we have to be on the moon tonight instead of in this room. There was 
absolutely no reason for World War I to be our war. We were railroaded 
into -- if I can be vulgar, we were suckered into -- that war merely so that 
the Zionists of the world could obtain Palestine. That is something that 
the people of the United States have never been told. They never knew 
why we went into World War I.

After we got into the war, the Zionists went to Great Britain and they 
said: "Well, we performed our part of the agreement. Let's have 
something in writing that shows that you are going to keep your bargain 
and give us Palestine after you win the war." They didn't know whether 
the war would last another year or another ten years. So they started to 
work out a receipt. The receipt took the form of a letter, which was 
worded in very cryptic language so that the world at large wouldn't know 
what it was all about. And that was called the Balfour Declaration.

The Balfour Declaration was merely Great Britain's promise to pay the 
Zionists what they had agreed upon as a consideration for getting the 
United States into the war. So this great Balfour Declaration, that you 
hear so much about, is just as phony as a three dollar bill. I don't think I 
could make it more emphatic than that.

That is where all the trouble started. The United States got in the war. 
The United States crushed Germany. You know what happened. When 
the war ended, and the Germans went to Paris for the Paris Peace 
Conference in 1919, there were 117 Jews there, as a delegation 
representing the Jews, headed by Bernard Baruch. I was there: I ought to 
know. Now what happened? 

The Jews at that peace conference, when they were cutting up Germany 
and parceling out Europe to all these nations who claimed a right to a 
certain part of European territory, said, "How about Palestine for us?" 
And they produced, for the first time to the knowledge of the Germans, 
this Balfour Declaration. So the Germans, for the first time realized, "Oh, 
so that was the game! That's why the United States came into the war." 
The Germans for the first time realized that they were defeated, they 
suffered the terrific reparations that were slapped onto them, because the 
Zionists wanted Palestine and were determined to get it at any cost.

That brings us to another very interesting point. When the Germans 
realized this, they naturally resented it. Up to that time, the Jews had 
never been better off in any country in the world than they had been in 
Germany. You had Mr. Rathenau there, who was maybe 100 times as 
important in industry and finance as is Bernard Baruch in this country. 
You had Mr. Balin, who owned the two big steamship lines, the North 
German Lloyd's and the Hamburg-American Lines. You had Mr. 
Bleichroder, who was the banker for the Hohenzollern family. You had 
the Warburgs in Hamburg, who were the big merchant bankers -- the 
biggest in the world. The Jews were doing very well in Germany. No 

question about that. The Germans felt: "Well, that was quite a sellout."

It was a sellout that might be compared to this hypothetical situation: 
Suppose the United States was at war with the Soviet Union. And we 
were winning. And we told the Soviet Union: "Well, let's quit. We offer 
you peace terms. Let's forget the whole thing." And all of a sudden Red 
China came into the war as an ally of the Soviet Union. And throwing 
them into the war brought about our defeat. A crushing defeat, with 
reparations the likes of which man's imagination cannot encompass. 

Imagine, then, after that defeat, if we found out that it was the Chinese in 
this country, our Chinese citizens, who all the time we had thought were 
loyal citizens working with us, were selling us out to the Soviet Union 
and that it was through them that Red China was brought into the war 
against us. How would we feel, then, in the United States against 
Chinese? I don't think that one of them would dare show his face on any 
street. There wouldn't be enough convenient lampposts to take care of 
them. Imagine how we would feel.

Well, that's how the Germans felt towards these Jews. They'd been so 
nice to them: from 1905 on, when the first Communist revolution in 
Russia failed, and the Jews had to scramble out of Russia, they all went 
to Germany. And Germany gave them refuge. And they were treated 
very nicely. And here they had sold Germany down the river for no 
reason at all other than the fact that they wanted Palestine as a so-called 
"Jewish commonwealth."

Now Nahum Sokolow, and all the great leaders and great names that you 
read about in connection with Zionism today, in 1919, 1920, 1921, 1922, 
and 1923 wrote in all their papers -- and the press was filled with their 
statements -- that the feeling against the Jews in Germany is due to the 
fact that they realized that this great defeat was brought about by Jewish 
intercession in bringing the United States into the war. The Jews 
themselves admitted that. 

It wasn't that the Germans in 1919 discovered that a glass of Jewish 
blood tasted better than Coca-Cola or Muenschner Beer. There was no 
religious feeling. There was no sentiment against those people merely on 
account of their religious belief. It was all political. It was economic. It 
was anything but religious. Nobody cared in Germany whether a Jew 
went home and pulled down the shades and said "Shema' Yisroel" or 
"Our Father." Nobody cared in Germany any more than they do in the 
United States. Now this feeling that developed later in Germany was due 
to one thing: the Germans held the Jews responsible for their crushing 
defeat.

And World War I had been started against Germany for no reason for 
which Germany was responsible. They were guilty of nothing. Only of 
being successful. They built up a big navy. They built up world trade. 
You must remember that Germany at the time of the French Revolution 
consisted of 300 small city-states, principalities, dukedoms, and so forth. 
Three hundred separate little political entities. And between that time, 
between the times of Napoleon and Bismarck, they were consolidated 
into one state. And within 50 years they became one of the world's great 
powers. Their navy was rivaling Great Britain's, they were doing 
business all over the world, they could undersell anybody, they could 
make better products. What happened as a result of that?

There was a conspiracy between England, France, and Russia to slap 
down Germany. There isn't one historian in the world who can find a 
valid reason why those three countries decided to wipe Germany off the 
map politically.

When Germany realized that the Jews were responsible for her defeat, 
they naturally resented it. But not a hair on the head of any Jew was 
harmed. Not a single hair. Professor Tansill, of Georgetown University, 
who had access to all the secret papers of the State Department, wrote in 
his book, and quoted from a State Department document written by 
Hugo Schoenfelt, a Jew whom Cordell Hull sent to Europe in 1933 to 
investigate the so-called camps of political prisoners, who wrote back 
that he found them in very fine condition. They were in excellent shape, 
with everybody treated well. And they were filled with Communists. 
Well, a lot of them were Jews, because the Jews happened to comprise 
about 98 per cent of the Communists in Europe at that time. And there 
were some priests there, and ministers, and labor leaders, and Masons, 
and others who had international affiliations.

Some background is in order: In 1918-1919 the Communists took over 
Bavaria for a few days. Rosa Luxemburg and Karl Liebknecht and a 
group of other Jews took over the government for three days. In fact, 
when the Kaiser ended the war he fled to Holland because he thought the 
Communists were going to take over Germany as they did Russia and 
that he was going to meet the same fate as the Tsar. So he fled to Holland 
for safety, for security. After the Communist threat in Germany was 
quashed, the Jews were still working, trying to get back into their former 

status, and the Germans fought them in every way they could without 
hurting a single hair on anyone's head. 

They fought them the same way that, in this country, the Prohibitionists 
fought anyone who was interested in liquor. They didn't fight one 
another with pistols. Well, that's the way they were fighting the Jews in 
Germany. And at that time, mind you, there were 80 to 90 million 
Germans, and there were only 460,000 Jews. About one half of one per 
cent of the population of Germany were Jews. And yet they controlled all 
the press, and they controlled most of the economy because they had 
come in with cheap money when the mark was devalued and bought up 
practically everything.

The Jews tried to keep a lid on this fact. They didn't want the world to 
really understand that they had sold out Germany, and that the Germans 
resented that.

The Germans took appropriate action against the Jews. They, shall I say, 
discriminated against them wherever they could. They shunned them. 
The same way that we would shun the Chinese, or the Negroes, or the 
Catholics, or anyone in this country who had sold us out to an enemy and 
brought about our defeat.

After a while, the Jews of the world called a meeting in Amsterdam. 
Jews from every country in the world attended this meeting in July 1933. 
And they said to Germany: "You fire Hitler, and you put every Jew back 
into his former position, whether he was a Communist or no matter what 
he was. You can't treat us that way. And we, the Jews of the world, are 
serving an ultimatum upon you." You can imagine what the Germans 
told them. So what did the Jews do?

In 1933, when Germany refused to surrender to the world conference of 
Jews in Amsterdam, the conference broke up, and Mr. Samuel 
Untermyer, who was the head of the American delegation and the 
president of the whole conference, came to the United States and went 
from the steamer to the studios of the Columbia Broadcasting System 
and made a radio broadcast throughout the United States in which he in 
effect said, "The Jews of the world now declare a Holy War against 
Germany. We are now engaged in a sacred conflict against the Germans. 
And we are going to starve them into surrender. We are going to use a 
world-wide boycott against them. That will destroy them because they 
are dependent upon their export business." 

And it is a fact that two thirds of Germany's food supply had to be 
imported, and it could only be imported with the proceeds of what they 
exported. So if Germany could not export, two thirds of Germany's 
population would have to starve. There was just not enough food for 
more than one third of the population. Now in this declaration, which I 
have here, and which was printed in the New York Times on August 7, 
1933, Mr. Samuel Untermyer boldly stated that "this economic boycott is 
our means of self-defense. President Roosevelt has advocated its use in 
the National Recovery Administration," which some of you may 
remember, where everybody was to be boycotted unless he followed the 
rules laid down by the New Deal, and which was declared 
unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of that time. Nevertheless, the 
Jews of the world declared a boycott against Germany, and it was so 
effective that you couldn't find one thing in any store anywhere in the 
world with the words "made in Germany" on it. 

In fact, an executive of the Woolworth Company told me that they had to 
dump millions of dollars worth of crockery and dishes into the river; that 
their stores were boycotted if anyone came in and found a dish marked 
"made in Germany," they were picketed with signs saying "Hitler," 
"murderer," and so forth, something like these sit-ins that are taking 
place in the South. At a store belonging to the R. H. Macy chain, which 
was controlled by a family called Strauss who also happen to be Jews, a 
woman found stockings there which came from Chemnitz, marked 
"made in Germany." Well, they were cotton stockings and they may 
have been there 20 years, since I've been observing women's legs for 
many years and it's been a long time since I've seen any cotton stockings 
on them. I saw Macy's boycotted, with hundreds of people walking 
around with signs saying "murderers," "Hitlerites," and so forth. Now up 
to that time, not one hair on the head of any Jew had been hurt in 
Germany. There was no suffering, there was no starvation, there was no 
murder, there was nothing.

Naturally, the Germans said, "Who are these people to declare a boycott 
against us and throw all our people out of work, and make our industries 
come to a standstill? Who are they to do that to us?" They naturally 
resented it. Certainly they painted swastikas on stores owned by Jews. 
Why should a German go in and give his money to a storekeeper who 
was part of a boycott that was going to starve Germany into surrendering 
to the Jews of the world, who were going to dictate who their premier or 
chancellor was to be? Well, it was ridiculous.

The boycott continued for some time, but it wasn't until 1938, when a 
young Jew from Poland walked into the German embassy in Paris and 
shot a German official, that the Germans really started to get rough with 
the Jews in Germany. And you found them then breaking windows and 
having street fights and so forth.

Now I don't like to use the word "anti-Semitism" because it's 
meaningless, but it means something to you still, so I'll have to use it. 
The only reason that there was any feeling in Germany against Jews was 
that they were responsible for World War I and for this world-wide 
boycott. Ultimately they were also responsible for World War II, because 
after this thing got out of hand, it was absolutely necessary for the Jews 
and Germany to lock horns in a war to see which one was going to 
survive.

In the meanwhile, I had lived in Germany, and I knew that the Germans 
had decided that Europe is going to be Christian or Communist: there is 
no in between. And the Germans decided they were going to keep it 
Christian if possible. And they started to re-arm.

In November 1933 the United States recognized the Soviet Union. The 
Soviet Union was becoming very powerful, and Germany realized that 
"Our turn was going to come soon, unless we are strong." The same as 
we in this country are saying today, "Our turn is going to come soon, 
unless we are strong." Our government is spending 83 or 84 billion 
dollars for defense. Defense against whom? Defense against 40,000 little 
Jews in Moscow that took over Russia, and then, in their devious ways, 
took over control of many other countries of the world.


For this country now to be on the verge of a Third World War, from 
which we cannot emerge a victor, is something that staggers my 
imagination. I know that nuclear bombs are measured in terms of 
megatons. A megaton is a term used to describe one million tons of TNT. 
Our nuclear bombs had a capacity of 10 megatons, or 10 million tons of 
TNT, when they were first developed. Now, the nuclear bombs that are 
being developed have a capacity of 200 megatons, and God knows how 
many megatons the nuclear bombs of the Soviet Union have.

What do we face now? If we trigger a world war that may develop into a 
nuclear war, humanity is finished. Why might such a war take place? It 
will take place as the curtain goes up on Act 3: Act 1 was World War I, 
Act 2 was World War II, Act 3 is going to be World War III. The Jews of 
the world, the Zionists and their co-religionists everywhere, are 
determined that they are going to again use the United States to help 
them permanently retain Palestine as their foothold for their world 
government. That is just as true as I am standing here. Not alone have I 
read it, but many here have also read it, and it is known all over the 
world.

What are we going to do? The life you save may be your son's. Your 
boys may be on their way to that war tonight; and you don't know it any 
more than you knew that in 1916 in London the Zionists made a deal 
with the British War Cabinet to send your sons to war in Europe. Did 
you know it at that time? Not a person in the United States knew it. You 
weren't permitted to know it. Who knew it? President Wilson knew it. 
Colonel House knew it. Other insiders knew it.

Did I know it? I had a pretty good idea of what was going on: I was 
liaison to Henry Morgenthau, Sr., in the 1912 campaign when President 
Wilson was elected, and there was talk around the office there. I was 
"confidential man" to Henry Morgenthau, Sr., who was chairman of the 
finance committee, and I was liaison between him and Rollo Wells, the 
treasurer. So I sat in these meetings with President Wilson at the head of 
the table, and all the others, and I heard them drum into President 
Wilson's brain the graduated income tax and what has become the 
Federal Reserve, and I heard them indoctrinate him with the Zionist 
movement. Justice Brandeis and President Wilson were just as close as 
the two fingers on this hand. President Woodrow Wilson was just as 
incompetent when it came to determining what was going on as a 
newborn baby. That is how they got us into World War I, while we all 
slept. They sent our boys over there to be slaughtered. For what? So the 
Jews can have Palestine as their "commonwealth." They've fooled you so 
much that you don't know whether you're coming or going.

Now any judge, when he charges a jury, says, "Gentlemen, any witness 
who you find has told a single lie, you can disregard all his testimony." I 
don't know what state you come from, but in New York state that is the 
way a judge addresses a jury. If that witness told one lie, disregard his 
testimony.

What are the facts about the Jews? (I call them Jews to you, because they 
are known as Jews. I don't call them Jews myself. I refer to them as so-
called Jews, because I know what they are.) The eastern European Jews, 
who form 92 per cent of the world's population of those people who call 
themselves Jews, were originally Khazars. They were a warlike tribe 
who lived deep in the heart of Asia. And they were so warlike that even 
the Asiatics drove them out of Asia into eastern Europe. They set up a 
large Khazar kingdom of 800,000 square miles. At the time, Russia did 
not exist, nor did many other European countries. The Khazar kingdom 
was the biggest country in all Europe -- so big and so powerful that when 
the other monarchs wanted to go to war, the Khazars would lend them 
40,000 soldiers. That's how big and powerful they were.

They were phallic worshippers, which is filthy and I do not want to go 
into the details of that now. But that was their religion, as it was also the 
religion of many other pagans and barbarians elsewhere in the world. 
The Khazar king became so disgusted with the degeneracy of his 
kingdom that he decided to adopt a so-called monotheistic faith -- either 
Christianity, Islam, or what is known today as Judaism, which is really 
Talmudism. By spinning a top, and calling out "eeny, meeny, miney, 
moe," he picked out so-called Judaism. And that became the state 
religion. He sent down to the Talmudic schools of Pumbedita and Sura 
and brought up thousands of rabbis, and opened up synagogues and 
schools, and his people became what we call Jews. There wasn't one of 
them who had an ancestor who ever put a toe in the Holy Land. Not only 
in Old Testament history, but back to the beginning of time. Not one of 
them! 

And yet they come to the Christians and ask us to support their armed 
insurrections in Palestine by saying, "You want to help repatriate God's 
Chosen People to their Promised Land, their ancestral home, don't you? 
It's your Christian duty. We gave you one of our boys as your Lord and 
Savior. You now go to church on Sunday, and you kneel and you 
worship a Jew, and we're Jews." But they are pagan Khazars who were 
converted just the same as the Irish were converted. It is as ridiculous to 
call them "people of the Holy Land," as it would be to call the 54 million 
Chinese Moslems "Arabs." 

Mohammed only died in 620 A.D., and since then 54 million Chinese 
have accepted Islam as their religious belief. Now imagine, in China, 
2,000 miles away from Arabia, from Mecca and Mohammed's birthplace. 
Imagine if the 54 million Chinese decided to call themselves "Arabs." 
You would say they were lunatics. Anyone who believes that those 54 
million Chinese are Arabs must be crazy. All they did was adopt as a 
religious faith a belief that had its origin in Mecca, in Arabia. The same 
as the Irish. When the Irish became Christians, nobody dumped them in 
the ocean and imported to the Holy Land a new crop of inhabitants. They 
hadn't become a different people. They were the same people, but they 
had accepted Christianity as a religious faith.

These Khazars, these pagans, these Asiatics, these Turko-Finns, were a 
Mongoloid race who were forced out of Asia into eastern Europe. 
Because their king took the Talmudic faith, they had no choice in the 
matter. Just the same as in Spain: If the king was Catholic, everybody 
had to be a Catholic. If not, you had to get out of Spain. So the Khazars 
became what we call today Jews. 

Now imagine how silly it was for the great Christian countries of the 
world to say, "We're going to use our power and prestige to repatriate 
God's Chosen People to their ancestral homeland, their Promised Land." 
Could there be a bigger lie than that? Because they control the 
newspapers, the magazines, the radio, the television, the book publishing 
business, and because they have the ministers in the pulpit and the 
politicians on the soapboxes talking the same language, it is not too 
surprising that you believe that lie. You'd believe black is white if you 

heard it often enough. You wouldn't call black black anymore -- you'd 
start to call black white. And nobody could blame you.

That is one of the great lies of history. It is the foundation of all the 
misery that has befallen the world.

Do you know what Jews do on the Day of Atonement, that you think is 
so sacred to them? I was one of them. This is not hearsay. I'm not here to 
be a rabble-rouser. I'm here to give you facts. When, on the Day of 
Atonement, you walk into a synagogue, you stand up for the very first 
prayer that you recite. It is the only prayer for which you stand. You 
repeat three times a short prayer called the Kol Nidre. 

In that prayer, you enter into an agreement with God Almighty that any 
oath, vow, or pledge that you may make during the next twelve months 
shall be null and void. The oath shall not be an oath; the vow shall not be 
a vow; the pledge shall not be a pledge. They shall have no force or 
effect. And further, the Talmud teaches that whenever you take an oath, 
vow, or pledge, you are to remember the Kol Nidre prayer that you 
recited on the Day of Atonement, and you are exempted from fulfilling 
them. How much can you depend on their loyalty? You can depend upon 
their loyalty as much as the Germans depended upon it in 1916. We are 
going to suffer the same fate as Germany suffered, and for the same 
reason.

