MALCOLM X: THE LEGACY CONTINUES

Feb. 21 marks the anniversary of the assassination of Malcolm X,
one of the greatest African American leaders in history. Despite
his untimely death in 1965, Malcolm's legacy of Black pride,
resistance and liberation remains as strong as ever, particularly
among African American and other oppressed youths.

In this period when the ruling class has unleashed a vicious
anti-worker, racist offensive against poor and working people,
the revolutionary message of Malcolm X must never be forgotten.
On the contrary, his words and deeds must continue to be blazed
upon the banners of the workers and oppressed not only in the
U.S. but all over the world.

Following is a selection of quotations from Malcolm X:


- "There is no kind of action in this country ever going to bear
fruit unless that action is tied in with the overall
international struggle." ("Separation or Integration" speech,
March 7, 1962)

- "We live in one of the rottenest countries that has ever
existed on this earth. It's a system of exploitation, of outright
humiliation and degradation." (June 28, 1964, speech at Audubon
Ballroom, New York, Organization of Afro-American Unity founding
rally)

- "Never at any time in the history of our people in this country
have we made advances or progress in any way based upon the
internal goodwill of this country. We have made advancement in
this country only when this country was under pressure from
forces above and beyond its control." (Dec. 31, 1964, speech at
Hotel Teresa, NYC)

- "Capitalism used to be like an eagle, but now it's more like a
vulture. It used to be strong enough to go and suck anybody's
blood whether they were strong or not. But now it has become more
cowardly, like the vulture, and it can only suck the blood of the
helpless."  (Jan. 19, 1965, interview with Young Socialist paper)

- "If George Washington didn't get independence for this country
nonviolently, and if Patrick Henry didn't come up with a
nonviolent statement, and you taught me to look upon them as
patriots and heroes, then it's time for you to realize that I
have studied your books well." (April 8, 1964, speech on "Black
Revolution")

- "I've never advocated any violence. I've only said that Black
people who are the victims of organized violence perpetrated upon
us by the Klan, the Citizen's Council, and many other forms, we
should defend ourselves. ... I think the Black man in this
country above and beyond people all over the world will be more
than justified when he stands up and starts to protect himself no
matter how many necks he has to break." (Feb. 14, 1965, in
Detroit one week before his assassination)

                               -30-

(Copyright Workers World Service: Permission to reprint granted
if source is cited. For more information contact Workers World,
55 West 17 St., New York, NY 10011; via e-mail: ww@blythe.org.)
