





                                         
                                         
                                         
                                         
                                         
                                         
                                         
                                         
                                         
                                      MONEY                                      MONEY
                                         
                                         
                                         
                                         
                                         
                                         
                                         
                                         
                              A guide to the economy
                                   by Ian Green
                                         
                                         
                                         
                                         
                                         
                                         
                                Copyright 1989 by
                                         
                                    Ian Green
                                     Box 973
                                  Vancouver, BC
                                 CANADA  V6C 2P1
                                         
                               All rights reserved.
                                         
                                         
             Permission  is  granted  to  distribute   this  document  in
        unmodified form on a not for profit basis. All others must obtain
        prior written permission from the author.























        Money by Ian Green                                         Page 2



                                   INTRODUCTION                                   INTRODUCTION
        
             Do you own your own home? If you do you are almost certainly
        one of  those so-called baby  boomers or  their parents. Consider
        yourself extremely lucky,  because if you tried to go buy a house
        today you probably  couldn't  afford  it,  even if you made twice
        what  you  currently  do.  The  reason  is  simple,  the  cost of
        borrowing  money  has  risen  so  high  that  it  has  completely
        outstripped the earning power of  the average  young  family. The
        real question is how did this situation come to be?  Sit back and
        read on,  I will tell you exactly what  is going on.  Some of the
        things  I will  present are likely  to shock  you, but everything
        contained in this essay is THE TRUTH!
             There are two major components driving the economy of today.
        The first and most influential is the supply of dollars. Contrary
        to popular belief,  the supply of dollars  has grown dramatically
        over the decades since the FIRST WORLD WAR. Prior to the war, the
        number  of  dollars  was  solidly   controlled  by  international
        agreement.  This was the last  period of the gold  standard. Gold
        has,  along  with  silver,  remained the 'official'  money of all
        nations.  Dollars,  yen, marks, pounds, etc. are all nothing more
        than money substitutes. Unlike the dollar, the supply of gold has
        risen only modestly over the centuries.
             The  second major force  driving the economies of  the world
        today is debt.  The United States of  America has emerged  as the
        leading debtor  nation,  far outstripping the   total debt of all
        the 'third'  world  nations combined.  It  continues  to  grow by
        hundreds of billions of dollars each year. 
             Combined,  the  two factors of  debt  and  inflation operate
        synergistically  to erode the  purchasing  power  of  the average
        family.  Now you may ask, confronted with these forces against us
        is  there a way out?  I would be  an out  and out liar  if I said
        there was. There is hope but time is quickly running out.





























        Money by Ian Green                                         Page 3



                                 THE RECENT PAST                                 THE RECENT PAST
        
             One of the leading themes of the numerous financial reports,
        that sum  up  the  '80s,  is  the  'unparalleled'  growth  in the
        economy.  What they don't tell you though,  is that the expansion
        is due entirely to inflation; the fact is that real earnings have
        declined   considerably.  In  1984  for  example  the  Dow  Jones
        Industrial Average was around  850.  Today,  five years later, it
        has broken 2700  or more than triple it's 1984 value. Other stock
        exchange indices reflect similar  performances.  I  can  not help
        wondering if your earnings did as well.
             In 1984, when I still smoked cigarettes, a package of twenty
        cigarettes was around $1.60.  Now prices of around $4.00 and even
        more  are  common-place.  Other  products  tell  similar stories.
        Unfortunately the official 'consumer price index' doesn't reflect
        realistic levels of inflation.
             In 1978  the start of the major downturn in  the economy was
        well established.  Inflation was rising to  unprecedented levels.
        In 1979  a major increase in the price of oil was to finally push
        the world economy over  the  edge  of  the  abyss.  Paper dollars
        reached all time  lows  nearly  reaching 1000  to the ounce gold.
        Interest  rates exceeded  21%  and inflation was  out of control.
        Only the collapse of 1929  exceeded the extremely high  levels of
        unemployment  that  resulted   from   unprecedented   numbers  of
        corporate  bankruptcies.  Things finally reached  a  crescendo in
        late 1981.  That Christmas was the bleakest  I had  ever  seen; a
        five dollar toy was the big 'hit'. You remember the Rubic's cube.
             If we look back a few more years   we find a  situation that
        is almost as bad. It was around 1972 that President Richard Nixon
        (America)  instituted wage  and price controls  in  an attempt to
        control double  digit inflation.  Many  other leaders  around the
        world followed suit.  It was market conditions (in 1973 the first
        of a series  of  huge increases in the price of  oil  shocked the
        world)   more  than  anything  else  that  controlled  increasing
        inflation,  although President Nixon took credit for the improved
        situation  (a  reduction  in  the  increasing  inflation). Almost
        immediately  after  controls  were  abolished  inflation  resumed
        reaching double digit levels. Many reacted by immediately raising
        prices (or demanding large wage settlements)  largely out of fear
        that controls would be re-imposed shortly.
             I could go on and on  and on,  citing examples of inflation,
        financial panic and more.  What I have yet to reveal is why there
        is  inflation and all  this  other  crap.  All  of  the so-called
        reasons that are offer to explain inflation are in reality simply
        symptoms of a deeper underlying problem. What we need is to do is
        get to the  root of the problem.  First though we need to learn a
        bit about the evolution of our economic system.















        Money by Ian Green                                         Page 4



                                EARLIER INFLATIONS                                EARLIER INFLATIONS
        
             For  as  long  as  there have  been  rulers  there  has been
        inflation. In archaic times it took the form of coins of slightly
        reduced purity  or weight.  Because early coins were  not exactly
        uniform in  shape,  these inflated coins could  circulate side by
        side  with  one of  full  weight and fineness.  Other reasons for
        their success was that the difference was very  slight; the coins
        were officially certified to be of  full weight and  purity, i.e.
        the guy in charge decreed they  be accepted without  question. It
        was also reasonable that the recipient could pass them  on at par
        with full weigh/purity coins.
             As  time  moved  on,  coins  would  go  through  a  cycle of
        replacement  until  some  time  later  they  were  ultimately and
        intrinsically  worthless.  All the time however the  value of the
        coins  would erode and eventually  no  one would  accept  them in
        exchange at  all.  It  was  about  this  time  that  a  change in
        management would occur.
             In medieval timers,  it was customary for  the goldsmiths to
        act as depositories for the safe-keeping of money (gold).  When a
        client wanted his money he had to go down and get it, or at least
        take  the guy he  was doing business  with  down  to  witness the
        transfer of accounts.
             Once paper finally became readily available,  it didn't take
        long for the goldsmiths  to  begin  providing  receipts  for gold
        deposited.  These  could then  be  endorsed  (not  unlike today's
        checks)  over to a third person  to complete a  transaction. This
        third person could then  go and  redeem the receipts and  get the
        gold.  Ultimately  goldsmiths  began  offering  'bearer' receipts
        which  were  the earliest  bank-notes  (in the  West  anyway, the
        Chinese were way ahead of us by several centuries).   































        Money by Ian Green                                         Page 5



                            FRACTIONAL RESERVE BANKING                            FRACTIONAL RESERVE BANKING
        
             Goldsmiths,  in  issuing their  receipts,  came  into direct
        competition with  the guy in  charge  over  the supply  of money.
        Rather  than   abolish  these  receipts,   some  monarchs  became
        intrigued by the fact that the masses preferred their goldsmith's
        paper over his often underweight  and impure metal  coins. It was
        also readily apparent that it was far easier  to make counterfeit
        paper  receipts  for   gold  that  could   circulate  along  side
        legitimate receipts.
             Naturally under even the simplest of legals  system, conning
        thine neighbor is not allowed,  unless of course you  are the one
        who makes the rules. Details are scarce but it is clear that some
        greedy king, along with the cooperation of a dishonest goldsmith,
        started  the system  of  fractional reserve banking.  The guy  in
        charge would protect the goldsmith from anyone  who complained in
        return for the goldsmith's financial backing.
             Using the old standby propaganda, both the goldsmith and the
        guy in charge would continually  reassure the public that  it was
        all right  to have more receipts outstanding than  there was gold
        because there would  always be more  than enough gold  on hand to
        meet redemption demands.  As long as those responsible didn't get
        too greedy,  the  erosion of  value of  the  receipts  was barely
        noticed (although people did eventually catch on).
             When things did get out of  hand  a 'run on the  bank' would
        occur.  Sometimes the goldsmith became 'bankrupt';  he could only
        pay  out the 'fractional reserve'.  The  rest  of the outstanding
        receipts were  worthless (at last  the counterfeits  were flushed
        out,  usually along with the counterfeiter). Sometimes the guy in
        charge foresaw the run and  closed  the  goldsmith's  shop before
        disaster struck.  Needless to  say that  remaining receipts would
        decline in value rather  precipitously.  If he had 'connections',
        sometimes the king could borrow some money (gold) and re-open the
        goldsmith's shop and meet the rush head-first!  Eventually people
        would see that the notes were being redeemed and would eventually
        refrain from redeeming their holdings. In fact these people would
        start  bringing  their gold  back  to the goldsmith's  to get the
        newly acceptable receipts. A fool and his money are soon parted.
             I guess you can see the obvious.  Once  the situation cooled
        off it didn't take long  for the guy in  charge to start  the old
        game again,  all the while eroding the value of the receipts more
        and more.  Eventually the whole  thing would fall  apart and once
        again a change in management usually occurred.



















        Money by Ian Green                                         Page 6



                                  CROOKED CREDIT                                  CROOKED CREDIT
        
             Not  long  after the abuse of  paper  receipts  started, the
        practice moved over to the  loans business.  In earlier times the
        goldsmith 'loaned'  money (gold) to certain customers for a small
        payment.  Certain other  customers  provided  gold  on  long term
        deposit for which they were paid a small amount. In the beginning
        it worked out well. Loans outstanding never exceeded deposits.
             A  new method of book-keeping,  known as the  'double entry'
        ledger system emerged. It was fair and accurate and it kept track
        of the goldsmith's business  and  everybody  was happy.
             Later though goldsmiths would loan money that was  in excess
        of the amount  on deposit.  In order to cover  the discrepancy, a
        dishonest goldsmith would 'depositing'  an  equivalent  amount to
        keep  the books balanced.  Needless  to  say  such  practices are
        completely and utterly fraudulent, but with the protection of the
        king what could be done?
             Although this kind of abuse  is not readily  visible, it did
        have  an  effect on the money supply  and inflation  continued to
        gnaw away the purchasing power of the receipts.
             Combined  with counterfeit receipts,  these fraudulent loans
        combined to destroy more economies that you can shake a stick at.
        It kind of  makes you wonder what is next. What can be worse than
        counterfeit money?






































        Money by Ian Green                                         Page 7



                                    FIAT MONEY                                    FIAT MONEY
        
             Somewhat more recently the value of  the  world's currencies
        has moved  to  the  logical  extreme  of  the  fractional reserve
        system.  If you  go  down  to  a  coin  dealer  and  look  at the
        historical bank-notes (American)  you will notice the  are marked
        'silver certificate'  or 'gold certificate'  as at one time these
        were  redeemable  in  precious metals.  Coins were actually still
        made of precious metals.
             Genuine paper  money is fully  redeemable. Counterfeit paper
        carries the promise of  redeemability (which the  issuer knows is
        fraudulent).  Paper money which doesn't carry even the promise of
        redeemability is even worse - it is a fiat money.
             Fiat money is what is left of the fractional  reserve system
        gone  broke.  It  is  a  money  substitute  that  has  no backing
        whatsoever.  Dollars became  fiat  in August 1971  when President
        Nixon declared that  the dollar  would no longer be  redeemed for
        gold (although in effect this was  evident as early  as 1968). In
        fact ALL currencies  of  ALL nations today are  100% irredeemable
        fiat money with NO TRUE BACKING whatsoever.
             Dollars  have  become increasingly worthless,  yet curiously
        they  have  become  redeemable  again (albeit at  a substantially
        reduced rate).  You can now go and buy gold bullion one again (It
        used  to be illegal to  own gold  bullion in  America). The paper
        dollar  has declined,  is declining and will  continue to decline
        relative  to  the gold  dollar until eventually it  is absolutely
        worthless. The path will be erratic but it is well established on
        its way down.


































        Money by Ian Green                                         Page 8



                                       DEBT                                       DEBT
        
             Finally  we  come  to  the debt  problem.  So  far all those
        deficit dollars (yens,  pounds, etc.) are increasing by leaps and
        bounds.  Sooner or  later this  debt  will  have to be  paid. The
        crucial question is how?
             Well if  you took the  American situation as an  example the
        debt  there is $3  trillion ($3,000,000,000,000.00)  or so. If we
        simply printed  it up and circulated  the notes it  would devalue
        the presently feeble dollar by at least 90%.  Not to popular with
        all those holders of  dollar  denominated assets  like  bonds and
        treasury  bills.  So  what else can be  done.  Well the supply of
        dollars can be increased more slowly  but it has  the same effect
        of depreciating the present value of  the dollar.  If we  look at
        the Canadian  situation,  it  is  even  worse.  Here  the debt is
        currently around $350,000,000,000.00 and only a  small population
        of 25 million people to pay.
             Suffice it to say inflation is going to get worse because of
        the double whammy of  counterfeiting and debt.  A gloomy scenario
        but accurate. Worse is the fact that there is more to come.
             Another consequence of this debt is that it siphons up money
        there by removing  it from the overall credit  pool.  This drives
        interest rates higher  which in  turn  drive  the  deficit higher
        which drive  interest rates high in  a vicious cycle.  In Canada,
        for  example,  the federal budget  deficit stands  in  the $30-35
        billion range.  Curiously that figure is about what  the interest
        payments are on  the total debt.  Any increase in  interest rates
        simply raises the budget deficit which in turn drives  the supply
        of dollars ever  high.  Consequently  the  debt  simply  feeds on
        itself growing uncontrollably.
             Another  peculiar  aspect  of  debt  lies in America.  It is
        variously known as the Savings and Loan crisis. When the industry
        was first created S &  Ls  were  confined  to  financing housing.
        Deposits were all insured and the situation was stable  (or so it
        seemed).  As time moved on however increasing  federal debt began
        to  drain money from  the private sector.  S  &  Ls  responded by
        raising the interest  offered on  deposits  to  maintain adequate
        reserves as required by law.  The problem was that  large amounts
        of  money had previously  been  loaned  out at  comparatively low
        interest rates for long  periods of  time.  Stuck  with these low
        paying mortgages and spiralling  interest  rates  it  didn't take
        long before the whole industry to fall into turmoil.
             In  a  quick  fix  the  American  congress  decided  it  was
        expedient to  allow the S &  L's  to  invest  in  higher yielding
        ventures to  help  improve their financial  health. Unfortunately
        such a change  in  policy did  nothing to ease the  situation. As
        interest rates continued to  climb more and  more these alternate
        investments  (mostly  in  commercial  real   estate)   fell  into
        bankruptcy and once again the industry was on the  verge of total
        collapse.  Only  this  time  the  situation  was quickly becoming
        hopeless.
             What happened to exasperate  the problem is nothing short of
        incredible.  In a frenzy  to  maintain  viability S &  Ls started
        competing  heavily  to  attract  depositors  to  the  point where








        Money by Ian Green                                         Page 9



        interest  rates were  becoming  unrealistic compared to earnings.
        None  of  this  mattered  though  because the  deposits  were all
        insured. This meant that savers could simply go to the S & L that
        paid the  most,  there was no risk so why not go  to  the highest
        bidder.  The  Federal  Savings  and  Loan  Insurance  Corporation
        (FSLIC)  was the one stuck to pay all this  money.  Once an S & L
        was bankrupt  (most were  well  past  that  stage years  ago) the
        entire  burden  fell  upon  the FSLIC.  Estimates of  the current
        amount needed to 'bail out'  the industry range into the hundreds
        of billions of dollars.  And still the congress has  done nothing
        alleviate the problem. Shutting the industry down seems to be the
        only viable solution.  It cannot continue to function the  way it
        does now. One thing is certain the accumulating debt will have to
        be paid.
        
             In  Canada  the pension system  is  run on  a pay as  you go
        basis.   Pension  payments  are  paid   from  general  government
        revenues.  Unfortunately demographics will make this program very
        expensive  for younger persons.  The reason is simple,  in Canada
        fully one third of the population is over the age of 50.  In only
        15 years the number of persons claiming a pension will skyrocket.
        The 'problem' of the declining birth rate is manifest.
             When  this pension  program was introduced  decades ago, the
        number  of  persons  that  were  eligible  was  relatively small.
        Advances  in  medical  technology  have  however  increased  life
        expectancy of the average individual substantially.  This results
        in ever  increasing  numbers of  persons  living  long  enough to
        collect a pension for longer   periods of time. Unfortunately the
        pension plan has not been modified to reflect this fact.
             This unfunded liability is sure to  drive up the  debt as no
        government has the  political  will  to  deal  with  the problem.
        In Canada a deindexing (decoupling the program to  inflation) was
        tried but the government  rescinded the  proposal  after numerous
        protests.  Instead one can expect that this liability will add to
        the already massive debt  driving inflation to  higher and higher
        levels.  It is even possible that the pension plan  may be phased
        out completely (because of bankruptcy).
             In America the national pension system  is  forced to invest
        in government  securities  which is  effectively  means  the same
        situation as Canada's only disguised. In order to pay the pension
        the  Federal government  has to pay  off some debt.  But the debt
        continues to grow and grow. A paradox that must be corrected.




















        Money by Ian Green                                        Page 10



                                    THE FUTURE                                    THE FUTURE
        
             What I have  described above is  all true.  Inflation has so
        eroded the dollar that it is now  almost intrinsically worthless.
        On top of that is a huge supply of additional deficit  dollars to
        further dilute the remaining value.
             Recently M2 (an index of the dollar supply) has been growing
        at an annual rate of some 15% (three times the official inflation
        rate)  and no slowdown is likely.  Where does it lead?  It simply
        means that government  policy continues  towards the inflationist
        view.  As I outlined in  earlier chapters  continued inflation in
        the  money supply  is sure to  cause the ultimate  downfall of an
        empire.
             Recently housing has become  short in  supply,  a symptom of
        the high cost of money.  The shortage drives prices up and up. If
        the cost of money wasn't  so  high then the housing  supply could
        keep up with the ever increasing population.  Construction of new
        homes is  slowed  when  the cost  of  money  rises.  Worse, local
        governments   are   reluctant   to   provide   building   permits
        exacerbating the problem.
             Sooner or  later,  all of  those deficit bills will  have to
        stand up and be counted.  You can be sure that inflation will run
        right through the roof when they do. Look at Argentina right now.
        It is in the hyperinflation stage right now. Prices are  doubling
        ever  day or  two,  the government  is  out to  lunch (there were
        recently a change in management there,  but the new president has
        nothing with which to rebuild the economy, inflation has eaten it
        all up).  At times there were riots as people fought to get basic
        food (it has  been priced out of  reach by  inflation). This will
        happen here, I just cannot say when.
             One things is clear,  previous generations  have been living
        beyond  their means,  and now the present and  future generations
        are going to have to pay and pay and pay and pay and pay and pay.





























        Money by Ian Green                                        Page 11



                                     SURVIVAL                                     SURVIVAL
        
             I guess you kind of  expected something of a  survival guide
        to  this dilemma and  lucky for you there is  a faint  glimmer of
        hope.  Basically put you have to change your  mentality regarding
        the health of the economy. Instead of valuating assets in dollars
        (or whatever) use gold dollars or my personal favorite sovereigns
        (they are coins that contain .2354 ounces of fine gold each, made
        by the British Empire,  they are still legal tender to this day).
        A sovereign is easily recognized by the image of  a reigning King
        or Queen on one side and a scene of St. George slaying the dragon
        on the other.
             Now move to liquidate dollar denominated assets like T-bills
        certificates of deposit and the like and redeem them for gold and
        silver.  Bulk coins (old  silver  dimes and  quarters)  are still
        around  and these make  a good  vehicle  for  hold  'money'. Bulk
        silver is also nice  (the troy pound is  12  ounces) as it weighs
        down the strongbox so that thieves  (Break & Enter is very common
        crime)  cannot just  simply  take  it  with  them;  it comes in a
        variety  of  convenient  sizes ranging up  to  and including 1000
        ounce bricks.  Bulk gold is available in sizes ranging up  to 400
        ounces. Fractional sizes are also available.
             Precious  metals rise in  value as inflation  rises. This is
        simply because  gold  cannot  be  artificially  increased. Nature
        severely  limits  the amounts that  can be  mined each  year to a
        minuscule fraction of the total world  supply.  Consequently they
        are extremely resistant to  inflation.  Another convenient aspect
        of  gold  is  that it is  recognized world wide.  No hastles with
        paper money changers, gold buys goods and services everywhere.
             One last piece of advice, should a dealer ask your name when
        making  a purchase do like  I do,  simply use a false  name. This
        avoids attracting attention to  yourself  lest certain 'official'
        money grabbers try to put the grab on your 'money'.
        




























        Money by Ian Green                                        Page 12



                                    THE AUTHOR                                    THE AUTHOR
        
             I was born  on  September 10th,  1958  in the Grace Hospital
        (now known as  the Children's  Hospital).  I  was  raised  in New
        Westminster and attended a variety different  schools  because of
        the politics of divorce (that my parents undertook).
             Once  I reached high  school  a degree  of stability finally
        reigned and my academic abilities reached their peak in  grade 11
        when I was granted Academic  Student of  the Year.  The prize was
        modest,  a  one  year  subscription  to  Scientific  American.  I
        graduated with honours in 1977.
             After  completion  of high school  I was able  to attend the
        University of British Columbia  for one year.  The  only reason I
        was able to achieve this was  simply because I  won a scholarship
        to attend,  my father would not assist me in any way  (I even had
        to pay for most of my books and supplies).  In 1978  I was unable
        to win  another scholarship (as the economy faltered  so  did the
        supply of funds for education)  so I was forced to enter the work
        force.
             My early years as a worker taught me a great deal  about the
        realities of  economics.  I entered the work  force  just  as the
        economy went to hell in a hand-basket. Still I was able to secure
        work if you consider working in toxic waste dumps  work.  Such is
        my lot I suppose. At least I could pronounce all the names of the
        chemicals I was cleaning up. Later in 1981 I got another job in a
        chemical factory, my lungs still bother me from the alkaline dust
        that permeated  the air (mostly soda ash, but phosphates and more
        complicated organics were also present).
             Lately I have found  myself working at poorly  paid 'service
        sector'  jobs.  I manage  to  survive.  Curiously  I do better to
        indicate  an inferior level of  qualification than  to present my
        full  academic  credentials.   (I  successfully  challenged  many
        courses at UBC and was taking one 3rd year math course  all in my
        first year).  Needless to say it makes me that  much more cynical
        to see hordes of morons in places where they shouldn't be.
        
             My personal survival depends on you,  because I don't have a
        steady job.  If you can afford it why not send $5  or $10  to the
        address on the cover,  I could sure use it.  Keep your eyes open,
        I plan to publish many more essays as time moves on,  both on the
        topics presented here as well as  others.  
             Perhaps if the venture works out I will be able  to complete
        my academic goals. I was pursuing a program based on mathematics.

















