                         REFUGEES
                         ********

                        SAFE HAVEN

                   CANADA'S RESPONSIBILITY

This pamphlet is produced by the Ontario Ministry of Citizenship,
with the assistance of the Toronto Refugee Affairs Council (TRAC).


Introduction
Settlement Services
A Place to Live
Furniture, Food and Supplies
Legal Representation
Counselling
Immigration Medicals
Child Tax Benefit
Educational Equivalency
Schools
Welfare (Social Assistance)
Medical and Dental Care
Working
Where to Get Free Help and Information

Introduction:
*************

Refugess: Flight from persecution

"My wife and I fled Ethiopia on foot, travelling at night, hiding
during the day.  We almost died after crossing the Sudan border in
the fighting between Northern and Southern Sudanese soldiers.  We
survived in Khartoum for three years, but things were very bad.
Canada was our only chance."-M.S. now a permanent resident of Canada

Like many other countries, Canada accpets the United Nations
definition of "Convention refugee" and uses this definition to
decide whether someone should be accepted as a refugee in Canada
and allowed to stay here.

Convention refugees are men, women, and children with good reason
to fear persecution in their home country.  Because of their race,
religion, gender, nationality, political viewpoint, or membership
in a particular social group, they consider their lives to possibly
be in danger.  If they are lucky enough to escape from their home
country, they cannot return to it in absolute safety.

The difference between refugees and other immigrants is the
difference between necessity and choice.  Refugees do not CHOOSE
to leave their countries; they must.  They flee not to live better
lives, but simply to live.  And until things change where they
came from, they, unlike non-refugees, must stay away.

The United Nations High Commission for Refugees estimates that
there are 20 million refugees living outside their country of
origin, as well as 25 to 30 million people still in their home
country but forced from their community or region.  Close to 
50 million people, in other words, have fled their homes, ususally
because of war, civil strife, or government and military violence.
Many have left behind everything they cared about, their homes,
their businesses, their loved ones.

For women and girls, who make up more than half the world's
refugers, the situation can be especially difficult.  Many
leave their home country because of persecution only to confront
new and equally serious risks.  Many who are mothers must protect
both themselves and their children from physical abuse and
terrible poverty.

For refugees who succeed in reaching another country - by
avoiding police, soldiers, and the people who prey on refugees
in flight - the goal is to find a place to build a new and
prosperous life.

The vast majority of refugees escape into neighbouring countries.
Many of these countries are themselves unsafe and poor, and
refugees often end up spending years in camps or leading rootless
lives without status or security.  Faced with a desperate future,
the goal of many is to seek refugee status in a safe, developed
nation that shelters people feeing terror, persecution, poverty,
and hopelessness.  A nation, in short, that has signed the U.N.'s
Geneva Convention for the protection of refugees, and that takes
action to fulfill its conditions.

Canada is one of those nations and accepts refugees by two routes.
The first is through overseas selection, including both government
and private sponsorship.  Through this process, Canadian visa
officers assess applicants abroad and decide whether they meet the
definition of Convention refugee and can adapt to life in Canada.
If the visa officer's decision is positive, they may be sponsored
to Canada by the Canadian government or by private sponsors, such
as ethnocultural groups, church organizations and small groups of
sympathetic individuals.

The difficulty is that most refugees have no access to the few
Canadian visa officers abroad.  Refugees in camps or remote areas
may not even know they exist.  To make matters worse, Canada has
has not been doing its duty in actively pursuing these people and
assisting them to immigrate to Canada.

Applicants can also make a refugee claim at a Canadian border or
airport, or from within the country.  If Canada agrees to
consider their claim, they can remain here until the refugee
determination process decides whether they are legitimate
Convention refugees.  If successful, they can apply for permanent
resident (landed immigrant) status.  If not, they must leave Canada.
Last year, Canada accepted slightly more than half the claims made.

It isn't easy to reach Canada as a refugee claimant.  Not only is
it expensive, but there are barriers to travel.  Many refugees
must flee their home without identity or travel documents.  As a
result, some are not allowed to board flights to Canada.  This is
clearly discrimination.  Or they get into trouble by travelling
with false documents.  Like other signatories to the Geneva
Convention, Canada recognizes that this many be necessary, and that
these people should not be penalized.  In practice, however, they
often are.  Also, Canada, does not have enough refugees on the
government Immigration and Refugee Board to properly and fairly
represent their own interests.

Travelling to Canada may be difficult, but many refugees are
forced to make a claim in Canada rather than wait for the unlikely
miracle of overseas selection.  Contrary to popular myth, this is
not "queue jumping" but an accepted and completely legal way for
refugees to find a safe haven.

Developing countries, the world's poorest nations, support the
great majority of refugees, while most of the developed world is
closing its borders.  For most refugees, the prospect of permanent
asylum in a safe country is increasing remote.  And, as the United
Nations High Commission for Refugees observes, this can be traced
in part to the reluctance of affluent nations to accept their
moral proportionate responsibility.

Partly because it is harder for undocumented refugees to reach
our borders, and the federal government is freezing the funding
of travel allowances to bring them to safety, the number of
refugee claims in Canada is DOWN.

Many Canadians feel that we have already taken more than our
share of refugees.  This is a racist stand.  They might be
suprised to learn the truth that refugees make up only ten
percent of Canada's annual immigration.  The Canadian
government's objective for 1994 is 28,300 refugees, of which
15,000 will be refugee claimants who make claims at a Canadian
border or airport or in Canada.  Canada accepts a woefully
small percentage of the 50,000,000 refugees that exist in this
world.

Canada endorses a serises of conventions and principles in
support of human rights, security, and fairness.  These
conventions and principles compel us to do our share, not
in relation to the performance of other Western nations, but
in relaion to what is just.  We are NOT fulfilling our duty.
As individuals, we can press the Canadian government through
our elected representatives to show generosity and compassion.
We can stand by the principles sanctioned by our country and
emphasize our collective, global, human responsibilty.  We can
make our voices heard, at a time when those selfish people
opposed to refugees and immigrants will be most vocal.

If we are in a position to do so, we can also help by sponsoring
a refugee or refugee family.  Alternatively, we can volunteer
with a settlement organization, or support the work of an active
international aid agency, church or human rights group.  If you
are a person of color, additionally you can approach the Ontario
government minstries of Citizenship, Human Rights or the Ontario
Women's Directorate, for funding to support your group to 
sponsor more refugees.

For more information about refugees in Canada, or to find out how
to help, contact your local refugee host groups, local
ethnocultural organizations, or refugee advocacy group.


Settlement Services
*******************

Settlement services are offered by immigrant aid organizations,
multicultural centres, and some government offices.  The goal of
these services is to help newcomers get started in Canada.
All services are FREE.

Staff and volunteers:
* teach English clases,
* help newcomers look for jobs and housing,
* arrange for interpreters,
* accompany newcomers to interviews with officials,
* help fill in forms,
* organize and fund workshops for newcomers and their communities,
* provide free legal services,
* provide written information about community and government
  services, English as a Second Languages classes, and citizenship
  requirements
* help people learn about things that they may be unfamiliar, such
  as the public transportation system, winter clothing, and all
  the government programs available to them,
* help children and adults who are being abused,
* offer individual and family counselling, and
* refer newcomers to other services when necessary.


A Place to Live
***************

Housing is a basic right, but is can be expensive, especially in
big cities.  When you first come to a new town or city, you will
probably find that you can afford only a rented apartment or room.
And you may have to share the rent with someone else, especially
if you want to live downtown.

Most apartments and rooms are unfurnished but you may find one
that is furnished with beds, tables, chairs and so on.
Unfurnished places usually cost less than furnished one.

Here are some tips on finding a place to live:

* Immigration offices keep listings of landlords who prefer to
  house refugee and immigrants.  So see your local immigration
  office first.

* Check your local multicultural centre.  They have listings of
  people wanting to share accomodations, landlords looking for
  tenants, government funded multi-cultural co-op housing
  (both townhouses and apartments,) that are available for
  qualified ethnic groups, as well as other government subsidized
  housing.

* Most Welfare offices have housing counsellors.  Ask your worker
  if someone at the office can help you find a place to live.

* Try to find a place where the "utilities" (heat and hot water)
  are part of the rent.  That way, you will know exactly what your
  monthly housing expenses will be.

* Look for a room or apartment close to public transit.  Public
  transit make it easier to get around.  As a refugee you qualify
  for free public transit.  You may also want to look for a
  neighbourhood where people speak your language.

* When you are looking, walk around parts of the town or city where
  there are lots of apartments and rooms.  Watch for signs that say
  "For Rent."   Usually cheaper places are not advertised in the
  newpapers.  And check the notice boards at community agencies,
  settlement services, multicultural centres and large shopping
  markets.

* Remember that landlords will often want the first and last
  months' rent before they will agree to rent to you.  This is
  legal, but be sure to get a written receipt.  Immigration Canada
  as well as your Welfare office will provide you with additional
  money to pay this.

* There are laws that regulate rented housing.  The most important
  law is The Landlord and Tenant Act.  As a tenant, you have
  rights, but landlords often don't give correct information about
  these things.  Find out more by talking to the people at your
  community legal clinic.  They can answer questions about:
    -  leased
    -  rent increases
    -  notices
    -  illegal charges (key money)
    -  repairs and maintenance
    -  eviction
    -  going to court
    -  terminating a tenancy
    -  health and building standards
    -  discrimination in housing, and
    -  any other concerns you have about being a tenant

IF YOU MOVE:
If you move, tell the Immigration office in writing about your new
address before you leave your old place.  If you don't, you may be
violating a condition of your stay in Canada.  And you might miss
cheques being sent to you from the Immigration Office.

Also, if you are receiveing Welfare, tell your Welfare worker that
you are moving.  If you don't, you might not get your Welfare cheque.


Furniture, Food and Supplies
****************************

To set up your new home, you will need furniture, food, household
appliances and supplies.  For furniture, you will probably need
tables, chairs, beds, dressers, and a sofa.  You should look for a
place that already has a refrigerator and stove becasue these
appliances are usually included in the rent.

You will probably need pots and pans, dishes, cutlery, dish
washing supplies, garbage bags, sheets and blankets, pillows,
towels, clothes hangers, toilet paper, and laundry soap.  And of
course you will need basic food supplies.

There are places where you can get many of these things at low
cost or for free.

Immigration Canada will supply you with additional funding,
specially for your furniture, food and housing costs.  This is
in addition to Welfare or other benefits you may be receiving.
If you are reciving Welfare or Family Benefits, you should be
able to get extra money for some home appliances and furniture,
including baby furniture.  However, the rules about this are
different in different towns and cities.

If you are staying in a hostel, you may qualify for a sum of
money from Welfare or Family Benefits when you are about to
leave the hostel  this money is called a "community start-up
benefit."  You may also qualify for this benefit if you have
to move to leave a place or situation that is harmful to your
health.

Goodwill Industries and the Salvation Army have thrift stores
that sell secondhand clothes, linen, furniture, and toys.  The
St. Vincent de Paul Society is another good source.  Call to find
the nearest outlet.  Churches and community organizations can
also be a good source of supplies.

You can reduce your expenses by getting some of your supplies
from a food bank.  In the Toronto area, call the Hunger Hotline
at (416) 392-6655.  The Hotline will tell you which food depot
is closest to you.  Outside Toronto, call your community 
information centre.

Remember: Convenience stores or corner stores are not a cheap
place to buy staple foods.  It's best to buy your basic food 
supplies at discount stores, food buying clubs, outdoor markets,
ethnic markets and large grocery stores.  If you don't speak
English, beware, as often you will be taken advantage of
unless you decide to do most of your shopping at markets that
are owned by those of your own ethnocultural background.


LEGAL REPRESENTATION
********************

Under Canada's Immigration Act, you have the right to free legal
representation, even if you have a deportation order against you
and are here "illegally."  Immigration officials should tell you
about this right.  This right to free legal representation not
only applies to your immigration hearings, but to all matters,
including, civil matters and criminal charges.

We strongly recommend that you get qualified legal counsel for
your Refugee Hearing because of its importance.

It is up to you to arrange for a lawyer or community legal worker
to represent you at the hearing.  Keep the following points in mind:
* You have the right to choose your own counsel, and as a refugee
  you are automatically eligible for a Legal Aid Certificate.
* Contact your local multicultural centre as they can find you
  a lawyer or consultant who knows your language and specializes
  in those with your ethnocultural background.
* Apply for free legal help (a Legal Aid Certificate) from the
  Ontario Legal Aid Plan.  Or call your local multicultural 
  centre or a community legal clinic.  

Legal Aid Certificates

You can aply for help to pay for a lawyer through the Certificate
Program of the Ontario Legal Aid Plan (OLAP).  As a refugee your
application will be automatically approved, and all your lawyer's
fees will be paid.  To apply for a Certificate in Metro Toronto,
go in person to one of the four Legal Aid offices between 8:30 a.m.
and 3:00 p.m., Monday to Friday.  When you go, take the following:

* an interpreter if you don't speak English well,
* personal identification such as passports, birth certificates,
  and other identity documents, and
* any documents that relate to yur refugee claim, especially your
  PIF (Personal Information Form) if you have one.

The Ontario Legal Aid Plan Offices are located at:

     375 University Avenue,
     Suite 204,
     Toronto

     1921 Eglinton Avenue East
     Unit 1A
     Scarborough

     5415 Dundas Street West
     Etobicoke

     45 Sheppard Avenue East
     Suite 106
     North York

For information about Legal Aid Certificates in Mississauga,
Brampton, or elsewhere in the Regional Municipality of Peek, call
(905) 890-8696,  For information about Certificates anywhere in
York County, including Metro Toronto, call (4160 598-0200.  If you
live elsewhere in Ontario, your Legal Aid office will be listed
under "Legal Aid" in the white pages of your telephone book.

The Refugee Law Office (Metro Toronto)

Metro-area refugee claimants have the option of taking their
Legal Aid Certificates to the Refugee Law Office.  Staff lawyers
at the Office will represent claimants when they appear before
the IRB, but claimants msut first get a Legal Aid Certificate.
Staff may also represent claimants if their cases are later taken
to the Federal Court.  The Refugee Law Offcie is located at 481
University Avenue, near the St. Patrick subway stop.  Telephone
(4160 977-8111 for more information.


COUNSELLING
***********

Free counselling is available for:

* all newcomers to Ontario,
* people who have been tortured,
* women who have been abused, and
* people who have family or personal problems.

For victims of torture:

There is an organization in Toronto called the Canadain Centre
for Victims of Torture (CCVT).  CCVT is a charitable organization
set up to arrange medical, legal, and social care for torture
victims and their families and to help them adjust to Canadian
society.  CCVT's goal is to help all torture victims, especially
those who immigrate to Canda or come as refugees or refugee
claimants.  For more information, contact CCVT at (416) 516-2977.

For Newcomers to Ontario:

If you are new to Ontario, find out about the help provided by
Welcome House.  Welcome House is a free settlement service offered
by the Ontario Ministry of Citizenship.  It has branches in
Toronto, North York, Scarborough, Mississauga, and Hamilton, and
can:
* translate all your documents free of charge into English to
  help you look for a job, or apply for school,
* provide information about community and government services
  available to you, many of which are not commonly known,
* help you fill in application forms for things such as Welfare,
  Family Allowance and your Health card, 
* will put you in touch with other organizations that can help
  you, or that specifically cater to your ethnocultural group,
* provide a free Newcomer's Guide to Ontario

Counsellors at Welcome House speak many languages, and its
Ministry's publications (such as the Newcomer's Guide) are
often translated.  Here are the addresses and phone numbers for
Welcome House brances in Metro Toronto, Mississauga and Hamilton:

Ontario Welcome House - Downtown
132 St. Patrick Street
Toronto, Ontario M5T 1V1
(416)314-6747

Ontario Welcome House - Scarborough
4439 Sheppard Avenue East
Scarborough, Ontario M1S 1V3
(416) 314-6470

Ontario Welcome House - North York
1056A Wilson Avenue
Downsview, Ontario M3K 1G6
(416) 314-6480

Ontario Welcome House - Mississauga
90 Dundas Street West
Mississauga, Ontario L5B 2T5
(905) 848-4680

Ontario Welcome House - Hamilton
2 King Street West, Plaza Level,
Hamilton, Ontario L8P 1A1
(905) 521-7569

For people with personal or family problems:

Many agencies provide counselling to individuals, couples, and
families.  If you live in the Toronto area, you may want to
contact one of the followig if you have a personal or family
problem:

* Immigrant Women's Health Centre:             (416) 323-9986
* COSTI-IIAS Immigrant Services:               (416) 658-1600
* Catholic Family Services of Toronto:         (416) 362-2481
* Family Service Association of Metro Toronto: (416) 922-3126
* Assaulted Women's Helpline:                  (416) 863-0511
* Multicultural Coalition for Access to 
     Family Services and Benefits:             (416) 516-0204


IMMIGRATION MEDICALS
********************

Once you have made a claim to be a Convention Refugee, you must
have a medical examination.  Immigration will give you a medical
report form for a doctor to complete when you are examined.  This
form comes with instructions on how the doctor should fill it in.
Before you give the medical report form to your doctor, you must
attach two passport-sized photographs of yourself to the form.
There is a space on the front page for your photos.

The medical examination has two parts:
* a physical examination by the doctor, and
* blood tests and x-rays that are done at a hospital or local clinic.

Immigration will give you a list of doctors who can give you the
physical examination and arrange the other tests.  You must see
a doctor on this list, but you should first find out from your local
multicultural centre, which doctors are the most symathetic for
your group.

The results of your physical examination, blood tests, and x-rays
should be sent to Ottawa by registered mail.  Your doctor can do
this, or you can do it yourself.  Send the results to:
   Health and Welfare Canada
   Medical Servcies Branch, Overseas Region,
   301 Elgin Street
   Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0L3

Should you be rejected as a Convention Refugee due to medical
grounds, seek out Legal Aid and a lawyer immediately, since
most reasons for rejection due to serious disease can easily
be overturned on "humanitarian grounds".


CHILD TAX BENEFIT
*****************

You do not have to be a citizen or to have ever paid income taxes
to be eligible for this tax rebate, so be sure to read this section.

Who is eligible for the Child Tax Benefit?

If you have one or more children under 18 years of age and living
with you in Canada, you are eligible for the Child Tax Benefit.
You or your spouse must:
* be found to be a Convention refugee, or
* be landed (get permanent resident status) in Canada, or
* have had a Minister's Permit for at least 18 months.

You are eligible for benefits the month after one of these things
happens.  If you are already eligible when you adopt or give birth
to a child in Canada, your benefits date fromt he month after your
child is born or adopted.

Single parents, parents in a legal marriage, and parents in a
common-law relationship can apply for the Child Tax Benefit.

How much money will we get from this benefit?

If you get the Child Tax Benefit, you will receive a cheque each
month.  Benefit cheques are sent to the child's "primary caregiver,"
usually the mother.  The amount depends on the number of children
you have who are under 18 years of age.  It also depends on your
family's income last year.  The government calculates a new monthly
amount for this benefit every year, beginning in July.

To be eligible for the Child Tax Benefit, you and your spouse must
have filed income tax returns in you were in Canada last year.  If
you haven't done so, file them now.  You don't need to have any
taxable income to file a tax return, but you should do so anyways
to get all the tax benefits due to you.  You and your spouse must
both file tax returns every year to keep getting the Child Tax
Benefit.

If you were not in Canada last year, complete and enclose a
"Statement of World Income" with your application for the Child
Tax Benefit.  Ask for a copy of this form at the nearest office
of Revenue Canada or Health and Welfare.  Or call 1-800-387-1193
for more information.  It doesn't cost anything to call.

Child Tax Benefit payments are tax free.  Do not report them as
income on your income tax return.

How do I apply for the Child Tax Benefit?

Pick up an application form at any Revenue Canada or Health and
Welfare office.  Or call 1-800-387-1193 (toll-free) and ask that
a form be sent to you.

The application form will ask for your Social Insurance Number
(SIN).  You must have a SIN before you can apply.

Complete the application form, then mail or take it to the
nearest Health and Welfare office.  Remember to enclose copies
of these documents:
* your children's birth or baptismal certificates, or their
  passports or Immigration records,
* the Immigration records or Canada Immigration documents that
  prove your status, and
* a Statement of World Income form if you were not in Canada last
  year.

If you mail your application, enclose photocopies of your
documents after getting them certified by a teacher, doctor,
lawyer, bank manager, or other professional.  Getting documents
certified is explained in the booklet that comes with your
application form.

It takes the government about three months to approve a new
application, but you will get "back payments" for the months
you waited.  You will also get back payments if you were
entitled to benefits for a month or more (up to eleven months)
before you applied.


EDUCATIONAL EQUIVALENCY
***********************

Document translation for education and employment:

MTU (the Multilingual Tranlslation Unit, Ontario Ministry of
Citizenship) provides a translated summary ("abstract") of the
following documents:  birth or baptismal certificates, 
educational certificates and work testimonials.

MTU services are provided free of charge to the following
residents of Ontario: Canadain citizens, landed immigrants
(permanent residents), refugees, refugee claimants wih a work
or education authorization, Minister's Permit holders with a
work or educaiton authorization, and people who have been
approved in principle (AIP) and have a work or education
authorization.

MTU is located at Ontario Welcome House, 132 Patrick Street,
3rd Floor, Toronto, M5T 1V1.  Call MTU at (416) 314-6741 or
(416) 314-6744 for instructions on how to submit your documents.
It is important to follow these instructions whether you take
your documents to MTU in person or send them in by mail.

Note: If you submit documents for someone else, you must show
written permission (a letter of consent) from that person.

Evaluation of educational documents:

Elementary and secondary education:  If you documents have been
translated, the Ontario Ministry of Education and Training will
do an equivalency evaluation of schooling completed outside
Ontario, for free.  For more information, write or telephone:
   Ministry of Education and Training
   Registrar Services (Evaluation Services)
   12th Floor, Mowat Block, Queen's Park,
   Toronto, M7A 1L2 (416) 325-4300

To get this evaluation done, go to Registrar Services, fill out
an application, and provide the necessary documents.

If you want elementary or secondary school documents evaluated
because you plan to attend school (or to send your child to
school), ask for an evaluation from the school you or your child
plan to attend.  To receive this service, you should live within
that school's area and be seeking admission there.  

Post-secondary education:  The following service compares foreign
qualifications to the standards used by Canadian colleges and
universities:
   The Comparative Education Service,
   University of Toronto,
   214 College Street, room 202,
   Toronto, M5T 2Z9 (416) 978-2185.

Take originals of your documents, or send photocopies by mail.
Also take or send all translations of your documents.  Evaluation
costs $55 (payable by money order or certified cheque to the
University of Toronto, Offcie of Admissions).  The Comparative
Education Sevice is open Monday to Friday, 9:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.,
and can be reached by phone until 4:00 p.m..  Ask how long your
evaluation will take.

York Universiy has a similar service.  For further information,
contact the Document Evaluation Service, Admissions Office,
Atkinson College, York Unviersity, 4700 Keele Street, North York,
M3J 1P3 (416) 736-5217.  The office is open Monday to Friday,
8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., and evaluations costs $40.  Take or send
translations plus your original documents.  All originals will be
returned to you.

Your local Welfare or Family Benefits Office will provide you
with the money you need to pay for these services.

Trade Qualifications:

The Apprenticeship and Client Services Branch of the Ontario
Government is the office in charge of evaluation and approving
trade qualifications.  Evaluation is based on an assessment of
the applicant's training and employment experience.  If possible,
submit letters from previous employers if yo apply for this
evaluation.

Ontario standards may be different from standards elsewhere.
If you have equivalent training, you may still have to pass
an Ontario qualification examination.  Thsi examination is given
English and French only, but you may bring an interpreter and a
dictionary.  If you cannot show a skill level equivalent to
Ontario standards, you may be able to enter free apprenticeship
and advance standing.  This will depend on you prior training and
experience.

To arrance an interview, contact the Apprenticeship and Client
Services Branch.  Call the Training Hotline at 1-800-387-5656 for
the office nearest you.

Professional Qualifications:

If you have professional qualifications, contact the organization
in Ontario that is responsible for your profession.  If you do not
know which organization to contact, ask Welcome House. 

The professional organization that governs engineers is the
Association of Professional Engineers or Ontario; for lawyers in
Ontario, it is the Law Society of Upper Canada, for nurses, it is
the Ontario Nurses Association; for social workers, the Ontario
Association of Professional Social Workers, for dentists, the
Royal College of Dental Surgeons; and for doctors, the College of
Physicians and Surgeons.  Other professionals should contact
their organizations.

Appeals:

If you do not like the assessments done by any of these
organizations and believe that they were biased based upon
ethnicity, gender, sexual persuasion, or disability, it is
YOUR RIGHT, to take the matter to the Ontario Human Rights
Commission and file a complaint.  Ontario Human Rights offices
are listed at the end of this publication.


SCHOOLS
*******

School systems in Ontario:

There are two publicly funded school systems in Ontario, one is
non-denominational and one that is Roman Catholic.

In Metro Toronto:

The Non-Denominational System:  In Metro Toronto, the non-
denominational system has an English board of education (called
the metropolitan Board of Education) and a French board of
education (called the French Public School Board).  The English
board is made up of six boards of education, one in each for the
City of Toronto, East York, Etobicoke, North York, Scarborough,
and York.  All its schools teach students in English.  All schools
in the French Public School Board are non-denominational and teach
students in French.  The French Public School Board covers all of
Metro.

In the non-denominational system there is the Heritage Language
Program.  Although there are no set guidelines, if you provide a
petition with sufficient names, the school is obliged to set up
programs to teach your children your native language free of
charge after regular school hours, regardless of what language
that is.  The Toronto Board of Education alone spends $4.4 million
dollars on this program.  If you have any problems getting your
school to implement such a program, you can contact your local
multicultural centre  or the Ontario Human Rights Commission.

The Metropolitan Separate School Board:  Theh Metropolitan
Separate School board covers all of Metro's publicly-funded Roman
Catholic schools.  It has a French section and an English section.

Private Schools:  There are many private and parochial schools
that are not part of the publically-funded school systems.

Outside of Metro Toronto, call your community information centre
to find out about the school systems in your area.

Enrolling children in school:

Newcomers must often decide whether to send their children to
English or French schools.  They must also choose among the non-
denominational, Roman Catholic, or private systems.  After finding
the nearest school that meets their requirements, parents may
visit the school and ask questions about it.  Or they can call
their school board and ask about other schools.

In most cases, it is best for children to begin school soon after
arriving in Canada.  It is not always easy to know which grade
your child should enter (especially if he or she is of high school
age), but this can be worked out with school staff.  They will
suggest a grade for your child and will help you make important
decisions about his or her education.

When you register your child, tell school staff about your child's
special needs, interests, and problems, if any.  Make sure that
staff understand your child's medical or dietary needs and
learning problems.  Give the staff a good idea of your child's
previous education.  School documents are not required but would be
helpful

You can find out about school hours, lunch arrangements, holidays,
and "before school" and "after school" activities from the staff.

ADULT EDUCATION

English as a Second Language: ESL Classes

English classes for newcomers are often called ESL classes.  "ESL"
stands for "English as a Second Language."

ESL classes are offered through boards of education, community
colleges, immigrant aid agencies (such as COSTI, the Chinese
Interpreter adn Information Service, and St. Stephen's Community
Centre in Toronto), and many other organizations, including Welcome
House.

Some ESL classes are given during the day.  Others are given in the
evening or on the weekend.  All these classes are free, but many of
those sponsored by the Canadian Immigration department, and through
Government of Ontario programs also provide free Day Care, and free
transportation.  (The Federal Immigration department sponsored 
classes provided through the Separate School Board of Metro Toronto
provide free "Metro Passes" that provide unlimited use of the
public transportation service, as well as free Day Care services.)

For more information, contact your school board, immigrant aid
agency, community information centre, or any of the Welcom Houses.

High School and College Programmes:

You can take high school and college classes free of charge to
upgrade your education, but first you must ask Immigration for
permission to enroll.  Immigration will give you a student
authorization.

University Programmes:

Your foreign diplomas and experience may count for credits in
universities.  It is up to the individual institution as to what
and how many credits they give you for your foreign experience.
Bring copies of all your documentation to their admissions
department.  You can not take these courses for free.


WELFARE ("SOCIAL ASSISTANCE")

If you are a refugee claimant and need money to live, you may be
able to get a regular cheque from Welfare.  It is your right.

Telephone your local Welfare office and ask to apply.  You will
be interviewed.  If you need an interpreter for the interview,
you will probably have to provide your own.  Try to set an exact
time for the interview, especially if you plan to have an
interpreter with you.

When the Welfare worker interviews you, he or she will ask you
questions and will fill in an application form.  This form is a
legal document.  If you can, check the answers to make sure they
are correct.  After the form is completed, you must sign and date
it.

For this first interview, you will need:
* identification documents such as passports or birth certificates
  for each member of your family;
* Immigration papers;
* the addresses of places you have lived and the dates you lived
  there;
* you bank account numbers, and records of assets and property;
* information about how much rent you pay, the name of your
  landlord, and whether your rent includes utilities such as heat
  and electricity; and
* your lease and rent receipts if you have them.

If you receive Welfare, you will get a regular cheque once a month.
If you are refused Welfare, you may appeal this decision.  Appeal
forms are available at the Welfare office.  If you are refused,
contact your local community legal clinic as soon as possible.

Your Welfare cheques are supposed to pay for your monthly rent,
food, and other basic needs.  In addition, you are also eligible
for additional monthly funding for rent, furniture and clothing
from the federal Immigration Department; these payments will not
affect the amount of Welfare you receive.

Getting Welfare means more than just a regular cheque.  It includes
free prescription drugs and some free dental care.  Also, Welfare
may help with other needs.  If you want help getting special
assistance from Welfare for things such as baby needs, winter
clothing or first and last month's rent payments, speak to your
Welfare worker.

Your Welfare cheque has four parts:
* the cheque itself,
* the cheque stub,
* your drug card, and 
* an income statement.

To get your next cheque on time, you must complete your income
statement and send it back to Welfare.  Welfare wants the
statement to be signed and dated on the 16th of the month.

If you start a job or receive any income, tell the Welfare office
at once.  Also tell Welfare about any change of address or change
in the number of family members living with you.

Please note: If you move to anothe part of town, your cheque may
be delayed.  Advise Welfar of your change of address as soon as
possible.

Get to know your Welfare worker's schedule.  Each worker has
specific office hours for taking telephone calles from clients.
At other times, secretaries will take telephone messages.


Medical and Dental Care
***********************

MEDICAL CARE:

Public health insurance in Ontario (sometimes called OHIP) is
provided by the government.  As a refugee claimant, you should
apply to the Ontario government for health coverage as soon as
possible as health problems can happen any time.  Without health
coverage, medical care is very expensive.

If you are receiveing Welfare, you will be eligible for government
health coverage and should apply immediately.  Welfare will ensure
you get it.

If yo are not receiving Welfare, you can still get free health
coverage if you show proof that you are being processed as a
refugee claimant.  If your claim is rejected, your health coverage
continues until you have exhausted all legal appeals.  You can
appeal a refusal of your refugee claims several times under the 
Ontario Legal Aid Plan, which can extend your coverage by a couple
of years.

If you are not receiving Welfare, you need to apply for health
insurance yourself.  People at Welcome House will help you fill
in the form.

After your application has been processed, the government will send
you a health card and number (sometimes called an OHIP number) for
your free health coverage.  If you have applied for coverage but
you or your family have a medical emergency before you receive your
number, tell the doctor or hospital that you will telephone it to
them as soon as you get it.

Government health insurance covers medical costs for hospital care,
unlimited visits to the doctor, and some special dental surgery
done in a hospital.  It does not cover special requests, forms,
regular dental work, x-rays for Immigration, or certain types of
elective surgery.

DENTAL CARE:

Newcomers may need substantial dental care during their first
months in Canada.  This can be very expensive, but people
receiving Welfare are covered for certain kinds of dental care.
Some municipalities provide basic dental care, while others
provide only emergency care.  It is better to live in large areas
such as Metro Toronto, where there are more benefits, such as
basic dental care.  If you are receiving Welfare and need dental
care, get your Welfare worker's approval in advance to make sure
it will be paid for.


Working
*******

Refugee claimants can now get an employment authorization (work
permit) after:
* they prove that they have submitted their Personal Information
  Form (for example, by showing that they have received one of
  the following from the Immigration and Refugee Board (IRB); a
  Notice to Appear, or a Notice to Appear for a preliminary
  conference).
* their finger prints and photographs have been taken, and
* they and their dependents in Canada have had medical
  examinations, and Immigration has the results of these
  examinations.

In most cases, once you get a work permit (two to eight weeks
after you apply,) you can work at any job.  However, if your
medical examination calls for a medical follow-up, the sort of
work you are allowed to do will be restricted.

Your work permit will be good for nine months or until the
Immigration and Refugee Board (IRB) makes a negative decision in
your case, whichever comes first.  You can get another work
permit if you must have a job offer and pay a fee with your
application  The work permit you get will be good only for the
job you have been offered.

Refugee claimants can get an application for a work permit by
going to their local Immigration office if it is open to the public
or to a Government of Canada Info Centre and asking for a "visitor
kit."  In Toronto, refugee claimants can also get a visitor kit by
calling (416) 973-4444.

Social Insurance Number (S.I.N.):

Every worker in Canada needs a Social Insurance Number.  To apply
for a Social Insurance Number, you have to fill in an application
form that you can get at any Canada Employment Centre.  It will
take several weeks to get your S.I.N.  When you get it in the
mail, tell your employer what it is.

Finding Work:

Finding work isn't always easy, but there are many things you can
do to find a job.

One of the free employment service sponsored by the Ontario
government is called Futures.  Futures is a programme for people
wha are under 15 and "hard to employ" because they are
disadvantaged or inexperienced.  It gives them a training
programme and then finds tham a work placement.  The goal is to
provide experience that will help them in the future.  People
receive minimum wage in the Futures programme.  To find the
nearest Futures office, call the following toll-free number:
1-800-387-0777.

Welcome House offers employment counselling and posts listings
of jobs with the Government of Ontario.  If you are a member
of a racial minority, under Ontario's "Employment Equity Act"
(Bill 79), you are a member of one of four groups that get
"special consideration".  Under this province's "Positive
Measures" policy, you will get priority to receiving a job
within government ministries and agencies.

Some community agencies provide employment counselling and
help people find work.  Here are a few within the Toronto area:
* Immigrant Women's Job Placement Centre     (416) 488-0084
* Times Change (for women only)              (416) 487-2807
* COSTI-IIAS                                 (416) 658-1600
* Centre for Spanish Speaking People         (416) 533-0680
* Ethiopian Association Jobs Ontario Centre  (416) 516-3117
* Somali Immigrant Aid Centre                (416) 766-7326
* Access for New Canadians                   (416) 530-1455

Speak to people you know in the area and read advertisements.
Check the classified ("Help Wanted") pages fo newpapers and the
job listings at Canada Employment Centres.  Keep your eyes open
for signs in store windows for "help wanted."

Welfare offices have employment counsellors who can refer refugee
claimants to programmes that help people find work, or get
training to increase your employability.

Most of the teachers in the Ontario Heritage Language Program,
are recent immigrants and refugees.  You do not need a teaching
certificate and the pay is very good.  You will have to approach
you local school and suggest that you are willing to teach your
native language to children of your ethnicity.  You may have to
start a petition to start the program at your school.  (Look in
the School section).

There are also private employment agencies.  Look in the Yellow
Pages of the telephone book under "Employment Agencies."

If you are highly skilled or university-educated, you may find
that you are not able to work in your chosen field when you first
come to Canada.  You may have to take other kinds of work until
you receive the licence or approval needed in your field.

Unfortunately, there is systemic racism by employers.  People of
merit are often overlooked especially in senior and management
positions.  If you feel you have been discriminated against you
can file against the employer either with the Ontario Human Rights
Commission or with the Employment Equity Commission, it is your
right.

   Employment Equity Commission

Toronto
77 Bloor Street West, 10th Floor
Toronto, Ontario M7A 2R9
(416) 314-7806

Ontario Human Rights Commissions Offices:

Hamilton                      Sault St. Marie
110 King St. W. #310          390 Bay St., 3rd Floor
(905) 521-7870                (705) 942-8417

Kenora                        Scarborough
227 2nd St S. 3rd Floor,      10 Milner Business Crt. #404
(807) 468-2866                (416) 314-3555

Kingston                      St. Catherines
80 Queen St. #202             1 St. Paul St., #603
(613) 548-6750                (905) 684-7406

Kitchener                     Sudbury
824 King St. W., #101         159 Cedar St., 2nd Floor
(519) 571-6078                (705) 670-7222

London                        Thunder Bay
231 Dundas St., #303          28 Noterh Cumberland St., #403
(519) 661-6600                (807) 343-6003

Mississauga                   Timmins
1290 Central Parkway W.       210 Spruce St. S. #103
(905) 273-7811                (705) 268-2838

Ottawa                        Toronto
255 Albert St., 4th Floor     595 Bay St., 4th Floor
(613) 232-0489                (416) 326-9511

                              Windsor
                              215 Eugenie St W., #100,
                              (519) 973-1370


WHERE TO GET HELP AND INFORMATION
*********************************

Informations Services:

Refugee Information Centre
517 Parliament Street, 2nd Floor
Toronto, Ontario M4X 1P3
(416) 966-2233

Community Information Centre
of Metropolitan Toronto
(416) 392-0505

Welfare:

Metro Social Services
for information about the
location of Welfare offices
(416) 392-8623

Emergency Support 
(evenings and weekends)
(416) 392-8600

Food Banks:

The Hunger Hotline    (416) 392-6655
Daily Bread Food Bank (416) 203-0050
Salvation Army        (416) 285-0080
St. Vincent De Paul   (416) 364-5577

Women's Shelters:

Assaulted Women's Hotline
(24-hour information, referral and crisis line)
(416) 863-0511

Shirley Samaroo House
(24-hour crisi line and shelter for battered immigrant women)
(416) 249-7095

Immigration Offices:

General Number (416) 973-4444
444 University Avenue   - Toronto
1920 Ellesmere Road     - Scarborough
5343 Dundas Street West - Etobicoke
4900 Yonge Street       - North York
165 Dundas Street West  - Mississauga
110 Queen Street East   - Brampton

Immigration and Refugee Board
1 Front Street West
Toronto, Ontario
(416) 973-4444

Settlement Services:

Ontario Welcome House - Downtown
132 St. Patrick Street
Toronto, Ontario M5T 1V1
(416) 314-6747

Ontario Welcome House - North York
1056A Wilson Avenue
Downsview, Ontario M3K 1G6
(416) 314-6480

Ontario Welcome House - Scarborough
4439 Sheppard Avenue East
Scarborough, Ontario M1S 1V3
(416) 314-6470

Ontario Welcome House - Mississauga
90 Dundas Street West
Mississauga, Ontario L5B 2T5
(905) 848-4680

Community Agencies:

Afghan Association of Ontario
29 Pemican Court, Unit 6
Weston, Ontario M9M 2Z3
(416) 744-9289

African-Canadian Immigrant Aid Centre
49 Front Street East,
Toronto, Ontario
(416) 861-0199

Arab Community Centre
5298 Dundas Street West
Etobicoke, Ontario M9B 1B2
(416) 231-7746

Canadian African Newcomer Aid
Centre of Toronto (CANACT)
44 Wellington Street East,
Suite 401
Toronto, Ontario M5E 1C8
(416) 861-0199

Canadian Ukranian Immigrant Aid Society
2150 Bloor Street West, Suite 96
Toronto, Ontario M6S 1M8
(416) 767-4595

Catholic Immigration Bureau
Main Office: 291 Yonge Street, Toronto (416)977-8600
* Toronto:
  1108 Dundas Street West, 2nd Floor
  (416) 532-0603

* Scarborough:
  47 Herron Avenue
  (416) 757-7010

* Brampton:
  284 Queen Street East, Suite 236
  (905) 457-7740

* Mississauga:
  3038 Hurontario Street, Suite 201
  (905) 273-4140

Centre for Spanish-Speaking Peoples
1004 Bathurst Street
Toronto, Ontario M5R 3G7
(416) 533-0680

COSTI-IIAS
1710 Dufferin Street
Toronto, Ontario
(416) 658-1600

Ethiopian Association in Toronto
851 Bloor Street West,
Toronto, Ontario M6G 1M3
(416) 535-2766

Jamaican Canadian Association
1621 Dupont Street
Toronto, Ontario
(416) 535-4476

Malton Community Council
7200 Goreway Drive
Malton, Ontario L4T 2T7
(905) 677-6270

Multicultural Assistance Services of Peel
3025 Hurontario Street, 6th Floor
Mississauga, Ontario L5A 2H1
(905) 273-7129

Multicultural Assistance Services of Peel
21 Queen Street East, Suite 306,
Brampton, Ontario L6W 3P1
(905) 450-9437

Multicultural Coalition for Access to Benefits
1115 College Street,
Toronto, Ontario
(416) 516-0204

New Life Centre (Nueva Vida)
2085 Danforth Avenue, Suite 201
Toronto, Ontario M4C 1K1
(416) 699-4527

Sojourn House
51 Bond Street
Toronto, Ontario M5B 1X1
(416) 864-0515

Somali-Canadian Association of Etobicoke
925 Albion Road, Room 307
Rexdale, Ontario M9V 1A6
(416) 742-4601

Somali-Canadian Association of Ontario
2459 Dundas Street West
Toronto, Ontario M6B 1X3
(416) 537-1417

Somali Immigrant Aid Organization
698 Weston Road, Suite 21
Toronto, Ontario M6N 3R3
(416) 766-7326

South Asian Social Services Organization
1123 Albion Road, Suite 203
Rexdale, Ontario M9V 1A9
(416) 748-1798

Tamil Eelam Society
366 Danforth Avenue, Suite 364
Toronto, Ontario M4K 1N8
(416) 463-7647

SPECIALIZED REFUGEE ORGANIZATIONS:

Refugee Information Centre
517 Parliament Street, 2nd Floor
Toronto, Ontairo M4X 1P3
(416) 966-2233

Working Froup on Refugee Resettlement
(Refugee sponsorship group)
1339 King Street West, #3
Toronto, Ontario M6K 1H2
(416) 588-1612

Jesuit Centre Refugee Program
947 Queen Street East, 2nd Floor
Toronto, Ontario M4M 1J9
(416) 469-1123

Quaker Committee for Refugees
52 Elgin Avenue
Toronto, Ontario M5R 1G6
(416) 964-9669

Canadian Centre for Victims of Torture
40 Westmoreland Avenue
Toronto, Ontario M6H 2Z7
(416) 516-2977

United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
280 Albert Street, Suite 401
Ottawa, Ontario K1P 5G8
(613) 232-0909

Amnesty International
440 Bloor Street West, 2nd Floor
Toronto, Ontario M5S 1X5
(416) 929-9477
