The Patriot Guidebook
to a Better America

-by-

Minuteman [DiP/Misfits/BMF]
polaris@np.newpower.com


This material is free to copy electronically.  However, this article, nor
any portion of it, may be reproduced without express consent of the author.
Most all of the information in this guide is available over the global
internet separately.

Before i begin, i would like to thank lots of people for their help in 
writing and compiling this journal... guys... you deserve a strong pat on
the back...

Sarin 
br0k3n
Thorzine
Leprekaun
Weasel   

And all of the other wonderful folks on #anarchy...

I hope all you guys enjoy what you've helped to create.  :)

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

*WARNING*

The material you are about to read may be offensive and shocking to some.
The author did not write this with the intention to incite or instruct anyone
to form a revolution, create violence, or commit illegal acts within the
United States of America.  This manual was written only for informational
sake.  The political feelings are of the author only.  Should anyone use
the information in this manual to violate the laws of the United States,
let he/she beware that the author of this guide takes no responsibility
for the consequences of their actions.  If you violate this agreement, you
threaten the freedom of the press by demonstrating that the people cannot be
trusted with provocative documents.

LET THE BUYER BEWARE!

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

"...We have studied your Communist Smersh, Mao, Che, Bucharin.  We have
 learned our lessions well, and have added a few home-grown Yankee tricks
 of our own.  Before you start your next smear campaign, before you murder
 again, before you railroad another patriot into a mental institution...
 better think it over.

 See the old man at the corner where you buy your paper?  He may have a
 silencer equipped pistol under his coat.  That extra fountain pen in the
 pocket of the insurance salesman that calls on you might be a cyanide-gas
 gun.  What about your milkman?  Arsenic works slow but sure.  Your auto
 mechanic may stay up nights studying booby traps.

 These patriots are not going to let you take their freedom away from them.
 They have learned the silent knife, the strangler's cord, the target rifle
 that hits sparrows at 200 yards.  Only their leaders restrain them.

 Traitors beware!  Even now the cross hairs are on the back of your necks!"

                - From the March 15, 1963 issue of "On Target"

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

TABLE OF CONTENTS

I. Description of the PG

II. The Organizations of the Right Wing

III. Sabotage/Harassment/Espionage

IV. The Weapons of the Right Wing

V. The Enemies of the Right Wing

VI. Final Notes

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

I. What is the Patriot Guidebook

   I wrote this guide a few weeks after the bombing incident in Oklahoma
   City.  I am a member of several militia and right-wing groups, and
   realized the lack of any real complete guide to a small-time militia
   member with ideas and information for him to do locally.  What you
   are about to read is a document based on various groups, individuals,
   and articles that definitively explains what the role of a right-wing
   extremist is, and how to accomplish that role.

   I did *NOT* write this guide for White Supremacists.  Let me use this
   temporary soapbox to explain the intense hate i hate for nazis and the
   klan.  The real Right Wing does not embrace or accept nazis or white
   supremacists as valid members.  To me, they are only fringe lunatics
   who really dont know what they are fighting for.  In order for us to
   succeed in our goal, we must unite all the people of the United States,
   because as Abraham Lincoln once said, "A divided house cannot stand."

   This guide was written for sane, well-minded right-wingers who are
   tired of the status quo and who are looking for a change.  If I
   have offended you so far, i suggest you stop reading now, and save
   yourself further annoyance.

II. The Organizations of the Right Wing
   
   "...March on, march on,
   Keep us forever free...
   ...Fight on, Fight on,
   And keep our nation free.
   And let them see our motto be,
   'Don't Tread On Me.'"

      - Right-Wing protest chant

   "Join or DIE."

      - Motto from a Revolutionary Propaganda page by Benjamin Franklin.


   The first thing one needs to know, is the various groups within the
   right wing.  If i was to list every single organization within the
   right-wing, i'd be wasting my time.  Here are a few that a good
   conservative/extremist SHOULD know, if nothing, for basic knowledge.

   If you know of any specific groups you think i should add to this list
   for later versions of this manual, please email me at
   polaris@np.newpower.com with the appropriate information.


   - The John Birch Society -

     Phone # : 1-800-JBS-USA1, 414-749-3780

     Address : The John Birch Society
               P.O. Box 8040
               Appleton, Wisconsin  54913

     Membership Dues:  $48 plus an optional subscription cost for The
                       New American newspaper.

     The John Birch Society has been a major facet of the right-wing
     since its creation in 1958.  It is a non-militant, ultraconservative
     anti-communist group that supports termination of all relations
     and trade with communist countries and urges the maintenance of a
     strong U.S. military.  It describes itself as an educational group
     that seeks less government and "more responsibility."  The JBS
     advocates FREE ENTERPRISE, LOWER TAXES, and complete U.S. withdrawal
     from the United Nations.  It publishes two newspapers, The JBS
     Bulletin, and The New American.  The JBS accepts any ethnic or
     religious minority so long as they put America over their background.

     If one orders information with them, they send very clear and fact-
     based literature about their positions, and why they are valid.
     For instance, one pamphlet details 12 well backed reasons, why we
     must "GET OUT" of the United Nations.  Birchers are known for their
     political vigilance, and their credibility.


   - The Minutemen -

     Phone # : <Unknown>

     Address : <Unknown> <Was previously:  'Minutemen'
                                           613 East Alton
                                           Independence, Missouri >

     Current Membership Dues: <Unknown> <Previously were unrequired.>

     Little has been heard from the Minutemen since the late '70's.  I am
     99% sure that they still exist, it seems they have just slipped from
     the limelight.  The Minutemen were one of the most publicized militant
     groups of right-wingers in the '60's and '70's.  Robert DePugh, their
     charasmatic leader kept the Minutemen active and vigilant, throughout
     this period.  The Anti-Defamation League several times conducted
     covert espionage activities on them, trying to discern that rumors
     concerning wether the Minutemen were anti-semetic were true.  Those
     rumors proved false, when the On Target Newsletter of theirs called
     neo-Nazis "tin-horn Hitlers" and various other derogatory terms.
     The Minutemen stress non-communism, non-socialism, and non-facism.
     They horde weapons and doomsday material for the "Day".  They can
     be contacted through publications distributed by the JBS, and other
     groups.

   - The Freemen -

     I have no information on joining or addresses for this group.  However,
     they are extremely similar to the Minutemen, and have been featured in
     various magazine and newspaper articles with the Michigan Militia and
     other highly publicized right wing groups.

   - Local Militias -

     Local militias can often be contacted through various right-wing
     national groups, like the Minutemen, or through electronic bulletin
     board systems, national or local.  If you intend on joining a local
     militia, be sure to know the following:

     1.) How many members does it have?  (It should have 100+)

     2.) Does it conduct armed training sessions?  (It should)

     3.) Does it have any links to other groups?  Which ones?

     4.) Is it a white supremacy group?  (If they are serious, the answer
                                          should be a firm NO)

     5.) What are the requirements for joining, and how much
         does it cost (if anything)?

   Here is a base list of several militias in active states.  This info was
   found in an ADL (Anti-Defamation League) report, and had to be edited
   extensively because of intense political bias, and because of several
   listings of white-supremacist (illegitimate, in my opinion) groups.

   Arizona

   Efforts have recently begun in Arizona to create a militia movement.
   David Espy, who portrays himself a latter-day American Revolutionary
   captain, has attempted to organize militia meetings over the last
   several weeks.  An advertisement he placed in the September 11
   and 25. 1994 issues of the Prescott Courier announced a meeting
   in Paulden, Arizona of the "Association of the Sons of Liberty
   and the Volunteer Militia."  The purpose of the meeting was
   to discuss plans for action against the federal government which,
   in his words, "continue[s] to pass legislation that weaken
   our unalienable, private property and Bill of Rights (sic)."
   The formation of a militia is an integral part of Espy's plan:
   "So, everyone out there, who thinks that taking pride in owning
   firearms, is being fanatical or nuts, should remember where you
   are living and how we all got here to begin with.  It wasn't by
   just sitting back and letting the government run our lives and
   usurping our fundamental rights as free people.  So forgive me,
   if I see a clear and present danger with what is happening in
   our country today, and that I feel a genuine and rational need
   to form a volunteer militia force.  If for no other reason than
   to [let] Washington know that there is still a large group of
   us out here that have inherited revolutionary DNA and are willing
   to fight for it until our dying breath."
   Another aspect of his plan is a demand for "the legal cessation
   (sic) of Arizona from these federal United States."  Also
   active in Arizona is Gary D. Hunt, a man obsessed with the Waco
   Branch Davidian incident.  Hunt himself was present during the
   siege in Waco and wrote about the event at the time, comparing
   the Branch Davidians to the original revolutionary Minutemen:
   "I understand why [the Minutemen] were willing to stand and
   face portions of the greatest military force in the world.  And
   I understand why David Koresh and the other brave defenders of
   Mount Carmel stand fearlessly defending their home and mine."
   More recently, Hunt has distributed a flier dated July 2, 1994
   and labeled "Sons of Liberty No. 3."  The flier describes
   the effectiveness of militias in the Revolutionary War and suggests
   that militias are again needed now.  At the bottom of the flier,
   written in by hand, Hunt announced: "March on Phx FBI 8-25-94
   5-6 p.m. to release the Branch Davidians. Bring legal signs +
   guns. Tell a friend."  The FBI and Phoenix Police paid close
   attention, but the planned march never materialized.

   Colorado

   Militias in Colorado have benefitted from the support of a number
   of right-wing groups.  Most active in the movement are so-called
   Patriot groups that proliferate throughout the state.  Others showing
   support for militias in Colorado are the Constitutionists, The
   Guardians of American Liberties (GOAL), and state representative
   Charles Duke.  Militias, calling themselves Patriots, are being
   formed across the state and are currently operating in Lakewood,
   Longmont, Boulder, and Greeley.  The Patriots propaganda promotes 
   the view that the federal government has betrayed the people 
   and the Constitution through laws regarding home-schooling, 
   abortion, taxation, freedom of speech and religion, and, most 
   importantly, gun control.  While calling on citizens to take 
   political action (for example, write their Congressmen, attend 
   meetings, etc.), they also urge that people prepare to resist the 
   government by forming militias and stockpiling weapons, groceries
   and other necessities for survival.

   The Patriots publish a newsletter and sell tapes and videos through
   "The Patriot Library."  Among the titles for sale are
   "The New World Order, Communist groups supported by Hillary
   Clinton," as well as tapes describing black helicopters said
   to be scrutinizing the actions of citizens in the western states.

   Guardians of American Liberties, a multi-slate organization centered
   in Boulder, is attempting to take a leadership role in the militia
   movement.  It describes itself as a national grassroots network
   of American Citizens formed to insure our government is free of
   corruption, that it is actively aligned with the will of the people
   and to safeguard the Constitution of the United States of America
   from all forms of corruption."  GOAL has some 40 to 50 members
   in Colorado as well as claimed chapters in Texas, Arizona, California
   and Nevada.  It has established a militia committee, although it
   is not clear what degree of success it has achieved in organizing
   militias in Colorado or elsewhere.  GOAL literature lists these
   additional committees: a "Federal Reserve IRS Committee."
   a "Political Prisoner Committee," and a "Sovereignty
   Freedom Committee," beneath which is printed the slogan,
   "Kick the Feds out of the Counties."

   The Constitutionists, a Kansas-based extremist group whose leadership
   includes Evan Mecham, the impeached former governor of Arizona,
   has received support in its promotion of militias from Colorado
   State representative Charles Duke (not related to David Duke).  Duke 
   spoke at the group's June conference in Indianapolis and promoted 
   the formation of militias as an effective way for citizens to protect 
   themselves from the government.  At a Patriots meeting last July, 
   Duke demanded that "We need some ability to get some firepower to protect 
   the citizens.  I would like to see a militia...[the type] that 
   functions as a sheriff's posse and has sufficient training."

   Radio station KHNC in Johnstown has offered its facilities to
   the Patriots and other groups active in the militia movement.
   KHNC broadcasts continuous Patriot programs and talk on "conservative
   issues."  In addition to using the radio to air their views.
   Colorado militias also disseminate information on computer bulletin
   boards that reach readers across the country.  The Colorado Free
   Militia and Boulder Patriots, for example, are promoted on the
   New Age Electronic Information Service, a Colorado bulletin board.

   Florida

   A Key Largo-based group calls itself alternately the United States
   Militia and the 1st Regiment Florida State Militia.  Making a specious
   claim to legitimacy from such documents as the U.S. Constitution,
   the Federalist Papers, the Florida Constitution and Florida statutes,
   this group has been attempting to recruit members at "patriotic"
   and anti-gun control gatherings in Florida.  Mimicking the style
   of the Declaration of Independence, its literature speaks of a
   "Train of Abuses" perpetrated on state and local governments
   and the citizenry by the federal government.  "Just as our
   Founding Fathers of this country shook off their shackles of bondage,"
   the group declares, "so must we."

   The militia's regulations state that "County units will be
   organized in each county of the state."  Militia members are
   told to expect to spend one weekend a month engaging in unit activities
   including rallies, shooting events and fund raisers.  A list of
   suitable equipment is provided, which includes one thousand rounds
   of ammunition per weapon and six 30-round magazines for each militia
   member.  While the group's regulations state that "The unit
   may not be used against the police or governmental authority within
   the state of Florida," an exception may be made when such
   an "entity" commits "crimes of violation of their oath of officer 
   and "of "sections or articles of the Constitution of the United States 
   of America and of this state."

   The United States Militia's material was distributed at a U.S.
   Constitution Restoration Rally in Lakeland, Florida, on October
   1, 1994.  Attended by 1,000 to 1,500 people, the event was sponsored
   by Operation Freedom, an outfit created by Charles and Ruth Ann
   Spross of Maitland Florida.  The Sprosses describe their effort
   as a "for profit partnership," and, indeed, they offer
   for sale scores of video and book titles, such as "The Planned
   Destruction of America" and Linda Thompson's "Waco,
   The Big Lie."  Featured on the schedule at the October 1 gathering
   was a speech by M. J. "Red" Beckman, of Montana, who
   has been influential in the militia movement in his home state.
   Distributed along with the speakers program at the rally was a
   sheet bearing the heading: "Paul Revere Rides Again."
   It proclaimed: "A strong and growing Underground Patriotic
   Movement with state-wide militia groups exists against The Sinister
   Ones that is unreported by the monopolistic and controlled establishment
   media."  Stockpile food, water, guns and ammo. Never surrender
   your weapons.... Form or attend meetings with other spirited patriots....
   Consider yourself warned!"

   Also distributed in large numbers at the rally was a flier urging
   that "All Gun Owners Should Fire A WARNING SHOT As A Signal
   To The New Congress" on November 11 at 11:00 pm.  "Congress
   has failed to safeguard the Bill of Rights," it reads, "especially
   the 2nd Amendment."  It further declares: A warship will fire
   a warning shot across the bow, a rattlesnake will sound off: these
   warnings are never ignored.  It is time to warn politicians that
   if they do not respect the Bill of Rights they should at least
   fear the wrath of the People.  Congress is forcing the country
   into a civil war.

   A group in Tampa that claims alignment with a national "patriot
   movement" has ordered four judges and several Hillsborough
   County officials, including the tax collector, to give themselves
   up for arrest to the group's "Constitutional Court".  Founder
   of the group, Emilio Ippolito, and his daughter, Susan Mokdad,
   reportedly said they have an unarmed militia composed of volunteers
   to execute the Constitutional Court's orders.  Subsequently, Ed
   Brown, an activist with an armed militia group in New Hampshire,
   contacted Florida law enforcement authorities, prosecutors' offices
   and the Florida Bar Association to express support for Ippolito's
   court.

   Idaho

   As in other parts of the country, the recent rise of militias
   in Idaho can be linked to four events: the Randy Weaver siege,
   the Waco disaster, the passage of the Brady Law and the federal
   anti-crime law.  Idaho militias identify particularly closely with
   the Weaver incident because it took place inside the state and
   because some key militia figures in the region were allied with
   Weaver and indeed participated in the events surrounding the siege.

   Samuel Sherwood, an Idaho militia leader, has recruited hundreds
   of Idahoans into his United States Militia Association.  At a July
   meeting in Blackfoot, Idaho, Sherwood reportedly told potential
   recruits that President Clinton's crime bill authorized the government
   to hire 100,000 former Royal Hong Kong police to come to America
   to enforce gun control laws.  As of August 1991, Sherwood's association
   has organized militias in at least a dozen of Idaho's counties.

   Sherwood's recruitment campaign has met with opposition from law
   enforcement officials.  The Tri-County Sheriff's Association, representing
   16 eastern Idaho counties, has passed a resolution against the
   formation of militias.  Greg Moffat, Madison County Sheriff and
   the leader of the association, has asserted that they would "give
   absolutely no support to the idea of a militia."

   Indiana

   Indianapolis is the home base of Linda Thompson, an influential
   figure in the militia movement nationally.  Thompson is a lawyer
   and chairman of the American Justice Federation, which describes
   itself as "a group dedicated to stopping the New World Order
   and getting the truth out to the American public."  Thompson
   claims to have contact with militias in all 50 states.  She appears
   frequently at militia gatherings and gun shows, to lecture and
   sell her videos "Waco, The Big Lie," and "Waco
   II - The Big Lie Continues."  The latter, she claims, "proves
   conclusively the government murdered 100 men, women and children
   at Mt. Carmel in April, 1993."  She also sells other propaganda
   material such as "The Traitor Files," which purport
   to link "Bill and Hillary Clinton to a Marxist-Terrorist
   network."  On July 13, 1991, Thompson was arrested in Indianapolis
   for using her vehicle to block a bus carrying supporters of President
   Clinton's health care plan.  She was charged with obstructing traffic.
   At the time of her arrest police officers seized from her person
   a .45-caliber pistol and a .22-caliber Derringer pistol.  They
   also found in her vehicle an assault rifle with 295 rounds of
   ammunition.  Her case is pending.

   Thompson had an even more controversial message to be delivered to 
   the government.  The ultimatum commanded members of Congress 
   to initiate legislation immediately that would, among
   other things, repeal the 14th, 16th and 17th Amendments to the
   Constitution, and the Brady Law and NAFTA.  Designating herself
   "Acting Adjutant General" of the "Unorganized
   Militia of the United States" Thompson ordered all participants
   to come "armed and in uniform."  She announced that,
   besides delivering the ultimatum, "The militia will arrest
   Congressmen who have failed to uphold their oaths of office, who
   will then be tried for Treason by citizens courts."  Realizing
   after several months that support for her march was lacking, Thompson
   called it off, yet her standing in the militia movement apparently
   remains undiminished.  The John Birch Society, troubled about Thompson's
   influence on its members and staff, found it necessary to warn
   them against her.  On May 12, 1994. the Society, issued an official
   "admonition to all members and a directive to all employees"
   to "stay clear of her schemes."  They said: "Linda
   Thompson's call for the arrest in September of members of Congress
   and the President of the United States by an armed militia is
   not just insane, it is contrary to all understanding of the nature
   and identity of the enemy."  It appears that even by the standards
   of the John Birch Society, Thompson is very radical.

   Meanwhile, Thompson continues to appear at rallies and conferences
   around the country, and on radio, promoting the militia cause
   and calling down thunder upon the American government and its
   law enforcement agencies.  A rally to form a militia in Indianapolis
   took place in September 1994, at a union hall in the south central
   part of the city.  In attendance were some 200 persons, filling
   the hall to capacity, while an overflow crowd was turned away.
   A smaller militia is believed to be functioning in Switzerland
   County, in eastern Indiana. 

   Michigan

   The militia movement has gained a following in Michigan.  The most
   visible such group in the state has sprung up in northern Michigan.
   Spokesmen there make the (probably exaggerated) claim that militias
   have 10,000 members and that brigades are operating or are currently
   forming in 66 of the state's 83 counties.  Meetings reportedly
   draw 50 to 100 attendees.

   The issues animating Michigan's militias are the same as those
   fueling the movement nationally.  Chief among them is a belief
   that gun control legislation is but a prelude to a complete ban
   on firearms ownership in this country.  An essential additional
   ingredient, though, is their conviction that the government intends
   to wage war on citizens who refuse to give up their weapons.  They
   cite as evidence for this view the tragic assault on the Branch
   Davidian compound in Waco, Texas, and the 1992 raid on the cabin
   of Randy Weaver in Idaho, in which Weaver's wife and son and a
   federal marshal were killed.  They also contend that this same
   federal government is acquiescing in the surrender of U.S. sovereignty
   to the United Nations and other international bodies.  The militia's
   aims are to "stand against tyranny, globalism, moral relativism,
   humanism and the New World Order threatening to undermine these
   United States of America."

   Norman E. Olson, 47, a Baptist minister and gun-shop owner in
   Alanson, is the Commander of the 1st Brigade, 2nd Division, Northern
   Michigan Regional Militia.  After a few months of discussion and
   recruitment, the group was established in April 1994.  It conducts
   training exercises twice a month.  At a recent session, weapons
   reportedly included Chinese SKS semi-automatic assault rifles,
   shotguns and deer rifles.  Olson strenuously denies that the 
   Northern Michigan Regional Militia is racist or anti Semitic.  
   He claims some Jewish ancestry, and professes admiration for Israel.  
   In reference to the aborted march on Washington promoted by 
   Indianapolis militia leader Linda Thompson, Olson has written: 
   "Many thousands are prepared to go to Washington in uniform, carry 
   their guns, prepared to present the ultimatum to the President and 
   to Congress.  This may be the beginning of a Concord-like 
   confrontation."  A militia pamphlet distributed at a May meeting in 
   Petoskey attended by some 55 people reportedly asked: "What force 
   exists to prevent a state or federally orchestrated massacre like 
   the one in Waco from occurring in Michigan?"  Ray Southwell, a real 
   estate agent who is the group's information officer, has said: "I'd
   guess that within the next two years, you will see the Constitution
   suspended."  His further prediction: "Christian fundamentalists
   will be the first to go under fascism this time.  Just like the
   Jews were the first last time."

   Southwell speaks as though he regards confrontation with law enforcement
   as inevitable.  His militia is preparing for the day "when
   martial law is declared."  "We are taking a stand," he says, "and are 
   prepared to lose everything."  Other militia activists in Michigan 
   have had their own encounter with the law. Police in Fowlerville 
   (Livingston County) arrested three militia members on September 8, 1994. 
   Loaded rifles and handguns, as well as gas masks, night-vision 
   binoculars and two-way radios, were found in their car.  At the 
   men's scheduled September 14 hearing, at least two dozen uniformed 
   supporters staged a protest in front of the courthouse and stomped 
   on a United Nations flag.  The suspects failed to appear and are 
   considered fugitives.  They were described by their supporters as 
   security aides to Mark Koernke (a.k.a. "Mark from Michigan"), a former 
   Army intelligence officer whose "America in Peril" video and speeches 
   have helped to recruit members to militias around the country.

   Missouri

   Militias are active in Missouri but do not appear to be as well-organized
   as in other states.  They operate in at least five southern Missouri
   counties: Crawford, Green, Barton, Dade and Cedar, and number
   collectively approximately 130 members.  The militias hold irregular
   meetings to view training videos, discuss paramilitary techniques
   and exchange literature reflecting right-wing views.  Missouri's
   militias are attempting to organize themselves for political action
   by, among other things, running candidates for local office.  In
   keeping with their political aspirations, they have attempted
   to avoid any public identification with more extreme groups, although
   some members also belong to the John Birch Society and the Populist
   Party.

   Montana

   Militias have been forming in Montana since February 1991.  The rhetoric 
   of these groups focuses mainly on gun control and other familiar militia 
   causes.  Meetings have been held across the state, drawing as many as 
   800 at a March 10 meeting in Kalispell.  Two other meetings there also 
   drew over 150 participants.  Similar gatherings held in Hamilton, Eureka,
   Big Timber and Great Falls drew over 200 participants each.  Smaller
   numbers attended meetings in Sanders County, Billings and Troy.
   While the crowds at initial meetings have been large, they have
   tended to fall off somewhat at subsequent gatherings.  Montana
   militias often dwell on the state's history as an independent
   outpost of freedom.  A recent militia newsletter quoted, with approval,
   Gary Marbut, president of The Montana Shooting Sports Association
   (an anti-gun control group) in a call for rejection of all federal
   control over the state: "Montanans are fed up with the federal
   government dictating to Montana and the people of Montana and
   we are through with Congress's increasing encroachment on the
   Bill of Rights.  We have a thirst for freedom in Montana, and we
   simply will not subsist under the boot heel of federal tyranny.
   There may be some debate about what the Second Amendment means
   to the U.S. Supreme Court or the people of Peoria, but there is
   no question about what the Second Amendment means to the people
   of Montana.  'The great purpose' as Patrick Henry said,
   'is that every man be armed.'"

   New Hampshire

   New Hampshire law provides for an "unorganized militia"
   made up of all citizens over the age of 18 who are not in the
   national guard or state guard.  Militia enthusiasts in New Hampshire
   have pointed to the state's legislation (as well as the Second
   Amendment to the U.S. Constitution) to explain and justify their
   seemingly oxymoronic organization of "unorganized militias."
   New Hampshire is the home of the Constitution Defense Militia, 
   a well-organized group with at least 15 members.  It is not known 
   if the group engages in paramilitary training or the stockpiling 
   of weapons.

   New Mexico

   As in neighboring Arizona, the organization of militias in New
   Mexico is in the nascent stages.  Thus far, the most visible manifestation
   of pro-militia sentiment in New Mexico has been found in The Free
   American, a monthly newspaper published privately by Clayton R.
   Douglas and his wife, Jan Douglas.  The September 1994 issue contained
   an advertisement declaring: "It's Time To Take Matters Into
   Our Own Hands, It's Time To Protect Our Constitution!  Join The
   New Mexico Unorganized Militia."  The accompanying phone number
   for more information was the number of the newspaper itself.  The
   militia movement appears to be taking hold in Catron County, an
   area that in recent years has experienced much anti-federal government
   sentiment among some residents.  Among the groups attempting to
   organize a local militia are "Concerned Citizens" and
   the "Patriots of Catron County."

   Finally, literature from Linda Thompson's (see Indiana section)
   "Unorganized Militias of the United States," has been
   distributed through gun shops in Albuquerque.

   North Carolina

   North Carolina's militia movement has been fueled by an alarmist
   vision of a U.S. government bent on the destruction of American
   liberties.  A Monroe-based group called Citizens for the Reinstatement
   of Constitutional Government has coalesced around Albert Esposito.
   He denies that he is preaching revolution, but his rhetoric includes
   clear overtones of preparation for battle with the enemy.
   He urges the group to amass caches of the "Four B's":
   Bibles, bullets, beans and bandages.  Many members own semiautomatic
   weapons, including AR-15's and AK-47s.  The group's program is
   a mixture of anti-government, religious and conspiratorial ideas.
   It aims to "make the Holy Bible and the United States Constitution
   the law of the land," and it vows to "resist the coming
   New World Order (one world government)."  To accomplish its
   goals, it promises to "Remove treasonous politicians and
   corrupt judges from positions of authority, and return authority
   to the people." 

   Citizens for the Reinstatement of Constitutional Government meets
   twice a month, alternating between Monroe, in Union County, and
   Matthews, in neighboring Mecklenburg County.  At one meeting, Esposito,
   a 43-year-old contractor, reportedly repeated G. Gordon Liddy's
   alleged statement about the new crime law's assault weapons ban:
   "He said. If they pass it, don't obey it. And if they come
   after you, meet force with force."

   The group has distributed application forms for the "National
   Free and Sovereign Civilian Militia, North Carolina state Division."
   The forms ask applicants whether they are proficient in the operation
   of handguns and rifles, "reloading ammo," and a variety
   of survivalist skills.  Esposito has espoused his views on guns
   at Union County commissioners' meetings.  He also railed against
   federal encroachment in announcing his support for a nonbinding
   resolution passed by the commission in support of school prayer.
   Holding a copy of the Constitution in the air, he declared: "We
   control the county.  Not Washington."

   Consistent with such anti-federal government views, Esposito says
   he has refused to file federal income tax returns for three years
   running because he regards the tax as unconstitutional.  The group
   he leads split off from a tax-protest group in Charlotte called
   the Carolina Patriots, three of whose leaders were convicted in
   October 1994 of conspiracy to help people avoid their tax obligations.
   Esposito's group has attempted to distance itself from the Carolina
   Patriots.  In addition to their views on guns and taxes, members
   of the Monroe group have expressed ideas and conspiracy theories
   that are characteristic of some other militias around the country.
   These include charges that the Federal Reserve system has enriched
   a tiny elite (the group's literature advocates the abolition of
   the Federal Reserve), and that some government employees have
   been implanted with computer chips in order to monitor the citizenry.
   Another claim made at one of the group's meetings, that the government
   cannot require private citizens to obtain a driver's license,
   echoes the stand of an earlier extremist group, the Posse Comitatus.
   A separate North Carolina militia group has been formed in Greenville,
   in the eastern part of the state. Led by Scott Brown, the unit
   is part of the Idaho-based United States Militia Association.
   Brown reportedly has said his group worries that government 
   representatives "don't really understand what the Constitution means 
   and stands for, and they're voting away our unalienable rights."
   It is not known whether the Greenville unit is engaging in any
   more incendiary rhetoric or activity.

   A computer bulletin board in Alamance County, called "The
   Spirit of '76," has served as an area recruiting point for
   the militia led by Linda Thompson, the Indianapolis woman who
   is a leading figure in the militia movement nationwide.  Another
   bulletin board system that made Thompson's computerized materials
   available has referred individuals interested in joining the militia
   to The Spirit of '76.  For its part, The Spirit of '76 has declared
   itself off limits to police and other government authorities by
   posting a warning that states: "This BBS [bulletin board
   system] is a PRIVATE system.  Only private citizens who are NOT
   involved in government or law enforcement activities are authorized
   to use it."
  
   Ohio

   A militia-type group called "Patriots" meets in Cincinnati and conducts 
   paramilitary exercises in rural Clermont County.  Another group, the Ohio
   State Militia has been featured on television several times.  They are
   also paramilitarists, dedicated to opposing gun control, the United 
   Nations, and the like.  For a period, some of their membership were 
   scanning and contacting persons with similar viewpoints over a mailnet
   called FidoNet, but it is unknown if this link still exists.

   Virginia

   On July 27 of this year, James Roy Mullins, a founding member
   of a militia-like group called The Blue Ridge Hunt Club, was arrested
   and charged with the possession and sale of a short-barreled rifle
   and unregistered silencers and with facilitating the unlawful
   purchase of a firearm.  Ultimately, three other members were also
   charged with firearm offenses.  Federal officials said that Mullins
   had formed the club to arm its members in preparation for war
   with the government.  The cases are pending.

   The group, formed earlier in 1994, has had as many as 15 members.
   They are said to have met three times before Mullins' arrest.
   While members of the group say that their purpose is to lobby
   against gun control laws, federal law enforcement officials describe
   it differently.  An ATF official who investigated the case
   said that "Mullins is organizing a group of confederates,
   to be armed and trained in paramilitary fashion, in preparation
   for armed conflict with government authorities should firearms
   legislation become too restrictive."  Evidence of such preparation
   is substantial.  In searches of members' homes and storage facilities,
   federal agents found a stockpile of weapons.  In Mullins' home,
   agents found 13 guns, several of which had homemade silencers.
   They also found explosives, hand grenades, fuses and blasting
   caps in a separate warehouse.

   Even pretrial incarceration has not stopped Mullins from threatening
   violence.  While in jail, he wrote a letter to a friend saying
   that he wanted to borrow a machine gun in order to "take
   care of unfinished business" with certain prosecution witnesses.

   The strongest indications of the group's goals was the draft of
   a portion of its newsletter found on a computer disk obtained
   by federal agents.  On the disk, Mullins had written: Hit and run
   tactics will be our method of fighting... We will destroy targets
   such as telephone relay centers, bridges, fuel storage tanks,
   communications towers, radio stations, airports. etc... human
   targets will be engaged ... when it is beneficial to the cause
   to eliminate particular individuals who oppose us (troops. police,
   political figures, snitches, etc.).

   There are various other militias in other states.  There is even an IRC
   (Internet Relay Chat) Militia that engages in sabotaging left-wing and
   seditious channels.  These can most easily be contacted through other
   militia/right-wing/gun buff groups.


   - Committees of Correspondence -

     Phone # : (615)856-6185

     Address : Nick Hull, secretary
               Committees of Correspondence
               2702 Kimbrell Rd
               Lenoir City, TN 37772
   
   The time has come for liberty minded people to begin to talk about how
   the anti-liberty trends of this country can be reversed.  For this
   purpose, we need to form Committees of Correspondence in each
   community.

   Note that these Committees are not oriented towards subversion or
   revolution - far from it!  They are meant as forums where people will
   discuss how this country is off track, and how it can be gotten back
   on track. While discussion of such theoretical possibilities is not
   barred from such groups, it is not the central factor - discussion is.

   These Committees have greater benefits than stimulating discussion for
   their members.  They provide a method by which like minded people can
   meet each other, thus developing a known community of such people. By
   doing so, the foundations are laid for a true citizen's militia,
   should such a body ever become necessary.

   Please volunteer to be a member of such a committee!  There are no
   requirements, except that you be willing to meet others in your
   community, who, like yourself, believe that this country has departed
   from the ideals of the founding fathers, and has moved towards being a
   totalitarian state that you would not wish to live in.
   
   - The People's Phrunt -

     Address : TPP c/o RevWilson
               427 E. 13th Street
               Eugene, Oregon  97401

     This is a new group that i was told about over Internet Relay Chat.
     They stand for basically the same thing as the JBS and Minutemen, and
     are firmly against white supremacy.  I cant tell you too much, because
     i havent had a chance to talk in depth with the creator.  But i
     encourage you to get more info.


III.  Sabotage/Espionage/Harassment Techniques

   - BASIC LOCK PICKING -

   At home you can take your time picking a lock, but in the field, speed
   is always essential.  A lock picking technique called scrubbing 
   can quickly open most locks in a pressure situation.

   The slow step in basic picking is locating the pin which is binding
   the most. The force diagram suggests a fast way to select the correct
   pin to lift.  Assume that all the pins could be characterized by the
   same force diagram. That is, assume that they all bind at once and
   that they all encounter the same friction. Now consider the effect of
   running the pick over all the pins with a pressure that is great
   enough to overcome the spring and friction forces but not great enough
   to overcome the collision force of the key pin hitting the hull. Any
   pressure that is above the flat portion of the force graph and below
   the top of the peak will work. As the pick passes over a pin, the pin
   will rise until it hits the hull, but it will not enter the hull.
   The collision force at the sheer line resists the pressure of the
   pick, so the pick rides over the pin without pressing it into the
   hull. If the proper torque is being applied, the plug will rotate
   slightly. As the pick leaves the pin, the key pin will fall back to
   its initial position, but the driver pin will catch on the edge of
   the plug and stay above the sheer line. In theory one stroke of the
   pick over the pins will cause the lock to open.

   In practice, at most one or two pins will set during a single stroke
   of the pick, so several strokes are necessary. Basically, you use the
   pick to scrub back and forth over the pins while you adjust the
   amount of torque on the plug.

   You will find that the pins of a lock tend to set in a particular
   order. Many factors effect this order (obviously), but the primary
   cause is a misalignment between the center axis of the plug and the
   axis on which the holes were drilled.  If the axis of the pin holes
   is skewed (non-aligned) from the center line of the plug, then the
   pins will set from back to front if the plug is turned one way, and
   from front to back if the plug is turned the other way. Many locks
   have this defect.

   Scrubbing is fast because you don't need to pay attention to
   individual pins. You only need to find the correct torque and
   pressure.

      1.) Insert the pick and torque wrench. Without applying any torque
       pull the pick out to get a feel for the stiffness of the lock's
       springs.
      2.) Apply a light torque. Insert the pick without touching the
       pins. As you pull the pick out, apply pressure to the pins. The
       pressure should be slightly larger than the minimum necessary to
       overcome the spring force.
      3.) Gradually increase the torque with each stroke of the pick
       until pins begin to set.
      4.) Keeping the torque fixed, scrub back and forth over the pins
       that have not set. If additional pins do not set, release the
       torque and start over with the torque found in the last step.
      5.) Once the majority of the pins have been set, increase the
       torque and scrub the pins with a slightly larger pressure. This
       will set any pins which have set low due to beveled edges, etc.


   ADVANCED LOCK PICKING

   Simple lock picking is a trade that anyone can learn.  However,
   advanced lock picking is a craft that requires mechanical sensitivity,
   physical dexterity, visual concentration and analytic thinking.  If you
   strive to excel at lock picking, you will grow in many ways.

   Mechanical Skills

   Learning how to pull the pick over the pins is surprisingly
   difficult.  The problem is that the mechanical skills you learned early
   in life involved maintaining a fixed position or fixed path for your
   hands independent of the amount of force required.  In lock picking,
   you must learn how to apply a fixed force independent of the position
   of your hand.  As you pull the pick out of the lock you want to apply a
   fixed pressure on the pins.  The pick should bounce up and down in the
   keyway according to the resistance offered by each pin.

   To pick a lock you need feedback about the effects of your
   manipulations.  To get the feedback, you must train yourself to be
   sensitive to the sound and feel of the pick passing over the pins.
   This is a mechanical skill that can only be learned with practice.  The
   exercises will help you recognize the important information coming
   from your fingers.

   The Art of Lock Picking

   In order to excel at lock picking, you must train yourself to have a
   visually reconstructive imagination.  The idea is to use information
   from all your senses to build a picture of what is happening inside
   the lock as you pick it.  Basically, you want to project your senses
   into the lock to receive a full picture of how it is responding to
   your manipulations.  Once you have learned how to build this picture,
   it is easy to choose manipulations that will open the lock.

   All your senses provide information about the lock.  Touch and sound
   provide the most information, but the other senses can reveal critical
   information.  For example, your nose can tell you whether a lock has
   been lubricated recently.  As a beginner, you will need to use your
   eyes for hand-eye coordination, but as you improve you will find it
   unnecessary to look at the lock.  In fact, it is better to ignore your
   eyes and use your sight to build an image of the lock based on the
   information you receive from your fingers and ears.

   The goal of this mental skill is to acquire a relaxed concentration on
   the lock.  Don't force the concentration.  Try to ignore the sensations
   and thoughts that are not related to the lock.  Don't try to focus on
   the lock.

   Analytic Thinking

   Each lock has its own special characteristics which make picking
   harder or easier.  If you learn to recognize and exploit the
   "personality traits" of locks, picking will go much faster.  Basically,
   you want to analyze the feedback you get from a lock to diagnose its
   personality traits and then use your experience to decide on an
   approach to open the lock.   These are very much the same tactics a right
   winger would use in other situations, such as evaluating a target.

   People underestimate the analytic skills involved in lock picking.
   They think that the picking tool opens the lock.  To them the torque
   wrench is a passive tool that just puts the lock under the desired
   stress.  Let me propose another way to view the situation. The pick is
   just running over the pins to get information about the lock.  Based on
   an analysis that information the torque is adjusted to make the pins
   set at the sheer line.  It's the torque wrench that opens the lock.

   Varying the torque as the pick moves in and out of the keyway is a
   general trick that can be used to get around several picking problems.
   For example, if the middle pins are set, but the end pins are not, you
   can increase the torque as the pick moves over the middle pins.  This
   will reduce the chances of disturbing the correctly set pins.  If some
   pin doesn't seem to lift up far enough as the pick passes over it,
   then try reducing the torque on the next pass.

   The skill of adjusting the torque while the pick is moving requires
   careful coordination between your hands, but as you become better at
   visualizing the process of picking a lock, you will become better at
   this important skill.

   Pick Shapes

   Picks come in several shapes and sizes.  The handle and tang of a pick
   are the same for all picks.  The handle must be comfortable and the tang
   must be thin enough to avoid bumping pins unnecessarily.  If the tang is
   too thin, then it will act like a spring and you will loose the feel
   of the tip interacting with the pins.  The shape of the tip determines
   how easily the pick passes over the pins and what kind of feedback you
   get from each pin.

   The design of a tip is a compromise between ease of insertion, ease of
   withdrawal and feel of the interaction.  The half diamond tip with
   shallow angles is easy to insert and remove, so you can apply pressure
   when the pick is moving in either direction.  It can quickly pick a
   lock that has little variation in the lengths of the key pins.  If the
   lock requires a key that has a deep cut between two shallow cuts, the
   pick may not be able to push the middle pin down far enough.  The half
   diamond pick with steep angles could deal with such a lock, and in
   general steep angles give you better feedback about the pins.
   Unfortunately, the steep angles make it harder to move the pick in the
   lock.  A tip that has a shallow front angle and a steep back angle
   works well for Yale locks.

   The half round tip works well in disk tumbler locks.  The full diamond
   and full round tips are useful for locks that have pins at the top and
   bottom of the keyway.  The rake tip is designed for picking pins one by
   one.  It can also be used to rake over the pins, but the pressure can
   only be applied as the pick is withdrawn.  The rake tip allows you to
   carefully feel each pin and apply varying amounts of pressure.  Some
   rake tips are flat or dented on the top to makes it easier to align
   the pick on the pin.  The primary benefit of picking pins one at a
   time is that you avoid scratching the pins.

   Scrubbing scratches the tips of the pins and the keyway, and it
   spreads metal dust throughout the lock.  If you want to avoid leaving
   traces, you must avoid scrubbing.  The snake tip can be used for
   scrubbing or picking.  When scrubbing, the multiple bumps generate more
   action than a regular pick.  The snake tip is particularly good at
   opening five pin household locks.  When a snake tip is used for
   picking, it can set two or three pins at once.  Basically, the snake
   pick acts like a segment of a key which can be adjusted by lifting and
   lowering the tip, by tilting it back and forth, and by using either to
   top or bottom of the tip.  You should use moderate to heavy torque with
   a snake pick to allow several pins to bind at the same time.  This
   style of picking is faster than using a rake and it leaves as little
   evidence.

   Bristle Picks

   The spring steel bristles used on street cleaners make excellent tools
   for lock picking.  The bristles have the right thickness and width, and
   they are easy to grind into the desired shape.  The resulting tools are
   springy and strong.  Keep reading to find out how to make tools that are
   less springy.

   The first step in making tools is to sand off any rust on the
   bristles.  Course grit sand paper works fine as does a steel wool
   cleaning pad (not copper wool).  If the edges or tip of the bristle are
   worn down, use a file to make them square.

   A torque wrench has a head and a handle (all do, not some).  The
   head is usually 1/2 to 3/4 of an inch long and the handle varies from
   2 to 4 inches long.  The head and the handle are separated by a bend
   that is about 80 degrees.  The head must be long enough to reach over
   any protrusions (such as a grip-proof collar) and firmly engage the
   plug.  A long handle allows delicate control over the torque, but if it
   is too long, it will bump against the doorframe.  The handle, head and
   bend angle can be made quite small if you want to make tools that are
   easy to conceal (for example, in a pen, flashlight, or belt buckle).  Some
   torque wrenches have a 90 degree twist in the handle.  The twist makes
   it easy to control the torque by controlling how far the handle has
   been deflected from its rest position.  The handle acts as a spring
   which sets the torque.  The disadvantage of this method of setting the
   torque is that you get less feedback about the rotation of the plug.
   To pick difficult locks you will need to learn how to apply a steady
   torque via a stiff handled torque wrench.

   The width of the head of a torque wrench determines how well it will
   fit the keyway.  Locks with narrow keyways (e.g., desk locks) need
   torque wrenches with narrow heads.  Before bending the bristle, file
   the head to the desired width.  A general purpose wrench can be made by
   narrowing the tip (about 1/4 inch) of the head.  The tip fits small
   keyways while the rest of the head is wide enough to grab a normal
   keyway.

   The hard part of making a torque wrench is bending the bristle without
   cracking it.  To make the 90 degree handle twist, clamp the head of the
   bristle (about one inch) in a vise and use pliers to grasp the bristle
   about 3/8 of an inch above the vise.  You can use another pair of
   pliers instead of a vise.  Apply a 45 degree twist.  Try to keep the
   axis of the twist lined up with the axis of the bristle.  Now move the
   pliers back another 3/8 inch and apply the remaining 45 45 degrees.
   You will need to twist the bristle more than 90 degrees in order to
   set a permanent 90 degree twist.

   To make the 80 degree head bend, lift the bristle out of the vise by
   about 1/4 inch (so 3/4 inch is still in the vise).  Place the shank of
   a screw driver against the bristle and bend the spring steel around
   it about 90 degrees.  This should set a permanent 80 degree bend in
   the metal.  Try to keep the axis of the bend perpendicular to the
   handle.  The screwdriver shank ensures that the radius of curvature
   will not be too small.  Any rounded object will work (e.g., drill bit,
   needle nose pliers, or a pen cap).  If you have trouble with this
   method, try grasping the bristle with two pliers separated by about
   1/2 inch and bend. This method produces a gentle curve that won't
   break the bristle.

   A grinding wheel will greatly speed the job of making a pick.  It
   takes a bit of practice to learn how make smooth cuts with a grinding
   wheel, but it takes less time to practice and make two or three picks
   than it does to hand file a single pick.  The first step is to cut the
   front angle of the pick.  Use the front of the wheel to do this.  Hold
   the bristle at 45 degrees to the wheel and move the bristle side to
   side as you grind away the metal.  Grind slowly to avoid overheating
   the metal, which makes it brittle.  If the metal changes color (to
   dark blue), you have overheated it, and you should grind away the
   colored portion.  Next, cut the back angle of the tip using the corner
   of the wheel. Usually one corner is sharper than the other, and you
   should use that one.  Hold the pick at the desired angle and slowly
   push it into the corner of the wheel.  The side of the stone should
   cut the back angle.  Be sure that the tip of the pick is supported.  If
   the grinding wheel stage is not close enough to the wheel to support
   the tip, use needle nose pliers to hold the tip.  The cut should pass
   though about 2/3 of the width of the bristle.  If the tip came out
   well, continue.  Otherwise break it off and try again.  You can break
   the bristle by clamping it into a vise and bending it sharply.

   The corner of the wheel is also used to grind the tang of the pick.
   Put a scratch mark to indicate how far back the tang should go.  The
   tang should be long enough to allow the tip to pass over the back pin
   of a seven pin lock.  Cut the tang by making several smooth passes
   over the corner.  Each pass starts at the tip and moves to the scratch
   mark.  Try to remove less than a 1/16th of an inch of metal with each
   pass.  I use two fingers to hold the bristle on the stage at the
   proper angle while my other hand pushes the handle of the pick to
   move the tang along the corner. Use whatever technique works best for
   you.

   Use a hand file to finish the pick.  It should feel smooth if you run
   a finger nail over it.  Any roughness will add noise to the feedback
   you want to get from the lock.

   The outer sheath of phone cable can be used as a handle for the pick.
   Remove three or four of the wires from a length of cable and push it
   over the pick.  If the sheath won't stay in place, you can put some
   epoxy on the handle before pushing the sheath over it.

   An alternative to making tools out of street cleaner bristles is to
   make them out of nails and bicycle spokes.  These materials are easily
   accessible and when they are heat treated, they will be stronger than
   tools made from bristles.

   Torque Wrenches

   A strong torque wrench can be constructed from an 8-penny nail (about
   .1 inch diameter).  First heat up the point with a propane torch until
   it glows red, slowly remove it from the flame, and let it air cool;
   this softens it.  The burner of a gas stove can be used instead of a
   torch.  Grind it down into the shape of a skinny screwdriver blade and
   bend it to about 80 degrees.  The bend should be less than a right
   angle because some lock faces are recessed behind a plate (called an
   escutcheon) and you want the head of the wrench to be able to reach
   about half an inch into the plug.  Temper (harden) the torque wrench by
   heating to bright orange and dunking it into ice water.  You will wind
   up with a virtually indestructible bent screwdriver that will last for
   years under brutal use.

   Bicycle spokes make excellent picks.  Bend one to the shape you want
   and file the sides of the business end flat such that it's strong in
   the vertical and flexy in the horizontal direction.  Try a righ t-angle
   hunk about an inch long for a handle.  For smaller picks, which you
   need for those really tiny keyways, find any large-diameter spring and
   unbend it.  If you're careful you don't have to play any metallurgical
   games.

   For perfectly serviceable key blanks that you can't otherwise find at
   the store, use the metal strap they wrap around bricks for shipping.
   It's wonderfully handy stuff for just about anything you want to
   manufacture.  To get around side wards in the keyway, you can bend the
   strap lengthwise by clamping it in a vice and tapping on the
   protruding part to bend the piece to the required angle.

   Brick strap is very hard.  It can ruin a grinding wheel or key cutting
   machine.  A hand file is the recommended tool for milling brick strap.

   That's about it for lock picking.  Its an important talent to have, 
   especially for espionage/sabotage.  If this explanation didnt suffice
   your quest for knowledge, there are various premade tools and manuals
   available through mail-order or in a "Spy" store near you.


   TAPPING A FONE LINE 


   Equipment Needed

   First thing you need is an audio tape recorder.  What you will be
   recording, whether it be voice or data, will be in an analog audio format.
   Most references will be towards voice recording, but it is also possible 
   to data record.  Most standard cassette recorders will work just fine.  
   However, you are limited to 1 hour recording time per side.  This can 
   present a problem in some situations.  A reel to reel can also be used.  
   The limitations here are size and availability of A.C.  Also, some reel 
   to reels lack a remote jack that will be used to start and stop the 
   recorder while the line is being used.  This may not present a problem.  
   The next item you need, oddly enough, is sold by Radio Shack under the 
   name "Telephone recording control" part # 43-236.

   Connecting the Parts

   The Telephone recording control (TRC) has 3 wires coming out of it.

   1.) Telco wire with modular jack.  Cut this and replace with alligator
      clips.

   2.) Audio wire with miniature phone jack (not telephone).  This plugs
      into the microphone level input jack of the tape recorder.

   3.) Audio wire with sub miniature phone jack.  This plugs into the "REM"
      or remote control jack of the tape recorder.

   Now all you need to do is find the telephone line, connect the alligator
   clips, turn the recorder on, and come back later.  Whenever the line goes
   off hook, the recorder starts.  It's that simple.

   Why is recording important?  Recording of evidence against communists,
   recording information, and recording important personal info about the
   enemy.

   
   BUGS

   The government often uses bugs, or electronic sound surveillance devices
   to spy on extremist groups, and use the evidence they get against them.
   They also use them to intercept plans and foil them.  It is extremely 
   important to search for these devices...  UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES DO YOU
   DESTROY THEM!!!  If you destroy it, the government/enemy will just find a
   way of putting a new one in.  You must fix it so the person on the other
   end of the line still thinks he is listening to something... some ideas
   are:

   - Keep it where it is, just be careful what you say.
   - Leaving it in an unclassified meeting room of a business.
   - Putting it in a closed environment with a taped conversation of you 
     talking about fake plans and information.
   - Leave it at an airport/bus station bathroom.

   But how do you scan for bugs?  Room bugs are miniature radio stations.  As
   such, anyone can tune them in.  This rarely happens, though, because the
   range is limited and the frequency is known only to the person who placed
   the bug.  In practice, most bugs transmit by frequency modulation, on or
   near the standard FM broadcast band (88 to 108 MHz).  There is a toy 
   called Mr. Microphone that is, in effect, a bug shaped like a large hand-
   held microphone.  The user speaks into the microphone, and others may hear
   his voice on their FM radios.  Clandestine bugs work similarly but are 
   more likely to transmit just off either end of the FM band -- from 86 to
   88 MHz (which infringes on a band allocated to television channels 5 and 
   6) or 108 to 110 MHz.  In that way, the chance of accidental interception
   or of someone complaining to the FCC is less.  The Watergate bugs was to
   have transmitted at 110 MHz.  You can check for bugs using a FM radio.  
   Turn the tuner to the extreme left side of the dial, as far as it will go,
   and turn the volume up.  Although 88 MHz is the lowest frequency marked,
   most receivers have enough "overcoverage" to pick up 87 or 86 MHz.  No FM
   stations are assigned below 88 MHz, so anything you may hear there is
   suspicious.  Slowly move the dial to the right until you come to the first
   commercial FM station.  Sweep over the FM band proper, and then check the
   overcoverage region above 108 MHz.  Any bug you hear will be in your 
   immediate neighborhood: typical transmitters use a few milliwatts of 
   power and have a range of a few hundred yards.  If you suspect the bug is
   in a nearby room, have someone talk or play music while you scan.  A few
   bugs can be picked up only with special shortwave receivers.  The 
   frequencies from 48 to 50 MHz and 72 to 75 MHz are sometimes used.  
   Several shortwave operators have reported conversations that seem to be
   from room bugs at 167.485 -- an FBI frequency.

   If you really want to get back at the person at the other end of the bug
   you might want to consider building a blast box.  All a blast box is, is 
   a really cheap amplifier, (around 5 watts or so) connected in place of 
   the microphone on the transmitting device/bug.  If you cant figure out how
   to do that, you might just place the bug in a massive amplifier at a music
   concert, and you'll have basically the same effect.  You'll not only 
   blast a hole in the eardrum of the listener, but you'll teach snooping 
   government agents a lesson that they wont soon forget.

   
   HI-TECH BUG DETECTION

   For high technology bugs, the radio trick wont work.  You'll need to
   either buy or build a high class detector.  If you wish to build one,
   follow these directions... 
   
   What you will need for your bug-detector:
   (the numbers in brackets is a reference number which matches the number in
   parentheses on this list.)
   

    (1) 1n34a crystal diode
    (2) 2 2n107 audio transistors
           (ge-2 or equivalent)
    (3) 3k ohm variable resistor
    (4) 560 ohm 1/2 watt resistor
    (5) 15k ohm variable resistor
    (6) 500 ohm variable resistor
    (7) .002 Uf capacitor
    (8) 1.5 Volt aa battery
    (9) aa battery holder
   (10) 0-300 microammeter
           (lafayette 99-g-5028 or
            equivalent)
   (11) 10 millihenry choke (ohmite
           z-50)
   (12) single-pole single-throw
           (spst) toggle switch
   (13) project box (radio shack)
   (14) antenna (either from an old
           transistor radio or a stiff
           piece of wire will also work)
   (15) 2000 ohm headset (or a mini-
           ature earphone like most tv
           and radios use)

   These parts can be purchased from Radio Shack or any other electronics
   store for less than $20.  This is a very good high-gain meter-type bug
   detector.  It has a crystal diode with 2 amplification stages to boost the
   power of the meter.  This produces a broad-band, battery-powered, receiver
   that can sense radio-frequency transmitters up to a mile away.  
   Unfortunately, it will also pick up a commercial am or fm station up to 
   3 miles away....

       Bug detector schematics (these may seem complicated, but if you are
       building the device, you'll understand what they are showing):

     [14]           [1]

      (*)-----+------\<---+------+----\
       \      \           \      \    \
      \      \           \      \    \
     \-/     (           /  [7] \    \
      v      )       [3] \     ---   \
        [11] (           /     ^^^   \
     [0]     )       --> \      \    \
             \       \   /      \    \
             \       \   \     \-/   \
            \-/      \   \      v    \
             v       ----+           \
                         \     [0]   \
            [0]          \           \
                        \-/          \
                         v           \
                                     \
                        [0]          \
                                     \

                                      \
   ---------------------------------------
   \        /----\
   \       (   /--)-----------\   --->>b<<
   \      (  \/    )          \   \
   ------(---\      )         \   \
          (  \\    )          ----+---\
           (   <--)-----\         \   \
       [2]  \----/      \         \   \
                        \         \   \
                        \         /   \
                   [0] \-/        \   \
                        v         /   \
                              [4] \   \
                                  /   \
                                  \   \
                                  \   \
                                >>a<< \
   

                                      \

                                         \
   ---------------------------------------
   \
   \          [12]      [8&9]
   \          ____      <-><+>
   \         /             \
   ---------()    ()-----\ \---->>c<<
                           \


                     [4]

   >>a<<--------\/\/\/\/\----->>c<<



                   ---------------->>d<<
                   \
           [2] /---\-----\
              (    \      )
             (      \-\    )
   >>c<<----(---\     \-----)----\
             (   \-->-\    )     \
              (           )      \
               \---------/       \
                            [0] \-/
                                 v


                    [5]
 
   >>b<<-------\/\/\/\/\---
    
                  ^
                  \
                  \
                  ------------>>d<<


                  [6]

   >>d<<-------/\/\/\/\/--
                  ^
                  \
                  \



   CAR TRACKER


   Another useful "bug"-type tool is a device known as a "bumpbeeper."  
   It attaches to the under side of a car with magnets and then sends out 
   a signal that can be heard on a radio.  This enables you to be able to
   track the enemy's automobiles and location.

    Parts list: () = diagram #

       (1) 2n635a transistor
       (2) 4.3K 1/2 watt resistor
       (3) 1 meg potentiometer
       (4) 10k 1/2 watt resistor
       (5) 50pf capacitor
       (6) 365pf variable capacitor
       (7) .005Uf capacitor
       (8) .01Uf capacitor
       (9) ferrite loopstick (from a crys-
      (10) coil [see text]    tal radio)
      (11) single-pole single-throw switch
      (12) 9 volt battery
     (opt.) Battery clip & case
      (13) antenna

   This device is a constant tone signalling source that can be tuned to any
   clear spot below 1000 khz.  If magnets are attached to the case, it can 
   quickly be installed under the persons car.  (9) is a standard ferrite 
   loopstick that can be purchased at Radio Shack.  (10) Is simply 12 turns 
   of plastic covered hookup wire wound over (9).

   13
   (*)-------\(----+-----______--- >>a<<
    \              \     ^^^^^^
    \        5     \       \   9
   ---             -\(--   --\(--->>b<<
    -           6      \   7
    v                  \
                       --->>a<<
 
 
   >>a<<------+------+------o/ o-----
              \      \       11     \
              /     ---             \
              \      -              \
              /      v              \
           4  \              --------
              \              \
              \              --[][]->>c<<
              --->>b<<          12
 
   "@                                   j  >>c<<----/\/\/\/\----+-----+------
                 2       \     \      \
                         \     \      \
         >>d<<---)\-------     \      \
                               v    >>e<<
 
               8      -----/\/\/\--
                      \       3
      >>f<<-----------+
                    /---\
                 1 (  \  )
                  (   / /-)---->>d<<
                 (   \  >  )
                  ( ----- )
                   (  \  )
                    \---/
                      \
                      \
                    >>b<<
 
 
   >>e<<-------
              \
              (
              )
              (
        10    )
              \
              ------>>f<<
 
 
 
 
   >>d<<---
           \
          ---
           -
           v  (ground)
 
    To tune the transmitter:
 
   1.) Pick an empty spot on the am car radio below 1000 khz.
   2.) Switch on the transmitter with the spst switch.
   3.) Tune the 365 variable capacitor slowly until a shrill note can be
       heard from the car radio.
   4.) The pitch of the note is adjustable by turning the 1 meg 
       potentiometer.
   

   - HARASSMENT TECHNIQUES -

   THE $99 BUS TOUR

   The Minutemen were known for their variety of harassment techniques.  At
   one point, they were prosecuted by the federal government for attempted
   murder of communists.  The key prosecution witness was a man named Jerry
   Brooks.  Brooks claimed that Robert DePugh (leader of the Minutemen) had
   handed him a vial of strychnine and a $99 Greyhound Bus ticket around
   the country, and was told to kill as many communists as he could.

   When asked to respond afterward by a reporter, DePugh replied that, like
   much of what Brooks testified to, there was a glimmer of truth in this.
   Brooks had allegedly been given the $99 ticket, but ordered to go around
   the country pretending to be a possible recruit for various communist
   organizations.  He would get inside the various organizations offices
   and take note of what they looked like, and any peculiarities about
   them.  Then, as Robert DePugh described it, "We were going to wait quite
   a little while, so they would no longer associate it with his visit and
   then write to them in such a manner they would think for sure that
   recently someone had been inside their office.  You know, like for
   example, we were going to write to Elizabeth Gurley Flynn [American
   Communist Party chairman at that time] and tell her, 'Why don't you
   wash the windows in your office?  They're so dirty we can hardly see
   through our telescopic lens.'"

   According to notes taken at a later Minutemen training session, "We
   must win through Psychological Warfare."  The notes mention such
   ideas as:

    * Sending boxed scorpions to left-wing radio announcers.
    * Telephone Harassment (Look up a local communist party chapter, and
       start prank calling, and hate calling.)
    * Physical Harassment : Find a communist's house, go there late at
       night, and shine a few lights in the windows.
    * Mail Harassment (sending bloody letters, violent letters, tampering
                       with their mail, burning their mail, etc.)
    * Blackmail and Bribery
    * Burglarize and Vandalize a communists house.
      For instance:

         Use hydroflouric acid on his windows.  Then, when the window is
         nice and brittle, you can literally punch out a section of the
         window without setting off an alarm.  From there, you can steal
         and pillage to your heart's desire.

         Knocking on the door, and nailing him with paintballs when
         he comes to the door, and subsequently paintballing his house.

         Egg his car, his house, and whatever else you like.

         Paint his house red.

         Nail a Declaration of Independence, or a Constitution to his door.

         Burn a stake/cross/hammer&sickle on his lawn.

         Take target practice on his front door.

         Stalk him, and chase him down.

    * Buy things with stolen credit card #'s and send them to his house.


    - ENCRYPTION/CRYPTOGRAPHY -

    Cryptography (secret codes) are essential for security.  The basic
    rule of security for right-wing militant groups is summed up in the
    statement "One of the set rules of Guerilla Warfare is don't operate
    with a set pattern or plan."

    However, for definite agendas, there are certain precautions that must
    be taken with ALL documents.  For electronic material, PGP or another
    cipher key program must be used.  For written documents, ciphers are
    more difficult to do, but they can also be more imaginative and
    creative.

    The Number Code

    Out of the various codes one can make, a number code is easiest.  The
    simplest number cipher is simply to assign a certain letter as one,
    and keep numbering up.  So, for example....

             A = 5
             B = 6
             C = 7
             D = 8
             E = 9
             F = 10
             G = 11
             H = 12
             I = 13
             J = 14
             K = 15
             L = 16
             M = 17
             N = 18
             O = 19
             P = 20
             Q = 21
             R = 22
             S = 23
             T = 24
             U = 25
             V = 26
             W = 1
             X = 2
             Y = 3
             Z = 4

    So if you wanted to say, "Minuteman was here", you would write:

    17-13-18-25-24-9-17-5-18  1-5-23  12-9-22-9.

    The problem with a code like this is that an experienced cryptographer
    by a simple combination of trial and error and analysis of sentence
    structure can determine very close to the exact code.  A better code
    is a more original, less standardized code.  The first example of
    this would be a Freemason type code.

    A   B   C     \ J  /       N   O   P      \ W  /
                   \  /                        \  /
    D   E   F       \/                          \/
                 K  /\  L      Q   R   S     X  /\  Y
    G   H   I      /  \                        /  \
                  / M  \                      / Z  \
                               T   U   V
                                        


    For that same message, "Minuteman was here", you would write:

      /\                               /\              
     /  \                                   /  \             
    /    \                                 /    \            

    \    /            
     \  /            
      \/              

                       
                               
                               


    However, the most effective cipher by far is a cipher that uses a
    renaming type motif.  That being, certain phrases and certain words
    mean exact things.  This method eliminates much of the possibility of
    a cryptographer doing anything but blindly guessing what the message
    you send might mean.  For instance

    John = Minuteman
    Ivan = Polaris
    "contact" = connect
    5:00 PM = High Noon

    Someone wants to tell someone else that Minuteman will contact Polaris
    at 5:00 PM.

    "John will connect Ivan at High Noon".  If you dont know the
    code, its easy to see how little one can derive from such a statement.

    What happens if you dont use encryption?  Federal agents use whatever
    documents they can find from your group to implicate and arrest members
    of it for illegal acts that they probably didnt commit, or at least with
    a just cause.  Remember, without any evidence and with a good lawyer,
    the government will have a much harder time trying to stop you.

    You must also, however, protect your normal mail, with certain techniques 
    to insure absolute security.  If not, the communists may use the very 
    same harassment/espionage tactics against you.
                           
    SEALS
                           
    Wax seals are not a guarantee against unauthorized opening of a letter.  
    According to the CIA Flaps and Seals Manual (available from Paladin 
    Press, Boulder CO), there is a way to remove and replace seals.  First 
    the opener takes a plaster of Paris cast of the seal.  This is set aside 
    to harden.  The wax is gently heated with an infrared lamp.  When soft, 
    it is rolled into a ball and set aside.  The flap of the envelope is 
    steamed open, and the letter is taken out and photocopied.  After the 
    envelope's contents are replaced and the flap resealed, the same wax is 
    used to recreate the seal.  It is heated till pliable and pressed back 
    into shape with the plaster of paris mold.  One type of seal is secure, 
    even according to the CIA manual quoted before:  one made of two or more 
    colors of wax melted together.  The colors inevitably come out different 
    on the second secret pressing.  But a color Polaroid of the seal must be 
    sent under separate cover so that the recipient can compare it with the 
    seal on the message letter.  None of the other common seals are reliable 
    against unauthorized opening, assuming that knowledgeable letter-openers 
    may want to open your mail.  Scotch tape across the flap of an envelope 
    comes off cleanly with carbon tetrachloride (applied wiht a brush or 
    hypodermic needle).  If you suspect that someone is opening your mail, 
    the manual suggests sending yourself a letter containing a sheet of 
    carbon or wax paper.  The heat and mechanical treatment of the letter 
    opening will smudge the carbon and melt the wax.  Otherwise, you have to 
    examine letters carefully to detect prior opening.  A torn flap, 
    smudging of the flap glue, flattened ridges in the flap, or concave 
    (from the back) curling due to steaming are evidence of opening.  A more 
    sophisticated test requires steaming part of the envelope near the flap 
    for fifteen seconds.  Then place the envelope under an ultraviolet lamp.  
    If there is a difference in fluorescence between the steamed and 
    unsteamed part of the envelope, then the envelope paper is suitable for 
    the test.  If so, examine the unsteamed part of the flap under the 
    ultraviolet lamp.  If it shows a different fluorescence than the other 
    unsteamed parts of the envelope, it indicates that the flap may have 
    been previously steamed.  The ultraviolet lamp is also useful in 
    detecting invisible writing.  An effective ultraviolet ink need not 
    fluoresce brightly, as the silicate stamp inks do.  Any substance that 
    changes the fluorescence of paper in ultraviolet light yet is invisible 
    in ordinary light will work.  Prisoners have used human urine as ink.  
    Salt water, vinegar, milk, fruit juices, saliva, and water solutions of 
    soap or drugs also work, with varying degrees of legibility.


IV. The Tools and Tactics of the Militants

    "... The true guerrila is never beaten.  He will never negotiate
    away his freedom.  He will never compromise his ideas.  He will never
    surrender.
         History offers many examples of far larger and better equipped
    armies that were finally defeated by guerrillas.  They can fight on
    for years, even generations.  Guerrilla bands can fight in the cities
    country, forests, swamps, deserts, or mountains.  They are everywhere
    and yet nowhere.  They strike without warning and vanish without a
    trace.  They take away with them the arms, food, and ammunition they
    will need to fight again another day.
         The guerrilla is a grim fighter and a terrible foe.  His strength
    is in his heart--in his love for his country--in his hatred of the
    enemy.  His chief weapons are stealth, cunning, endurance, and most
    of all, an intense belief in the righteousness of his own cause.
         He will fight to the death with a fury that makes his enemies
    cower before him."

            From "Principles of Guerrilla Warfare," copyright 1961,
            Robert B. Depugh -- a booklet


                    "The Pen is mightier than the Sword.
                     The Court is mightier than the Pen.
                     The Sword is mightier than the Court."
                                            
                                  - Rey Barry -


                    "Walk softly, and carry a big stick."

                              - Theodore Roosevelt -


    This is probably the section half of those reading this manual have
    been waiting for: the firearms.  I would stress to those reading this
    my earlier warning that the information provided is for INSTRUCTION
    ONLY.  Should you do this, its your own fault what happens.  I would
    also stress that in several cases, action can be taken without
    involving serious violence.  Please explore all alternatives before
    shooting anyone.  

    - GUNS AND RELATED WEAPONS -

    There are several important things you must know about guns (being
    their types, specifications, and how to use them.)  However, there
    is other information that is perhaps even more important.

    First of all, you need to know what guns to buy for who.  Although
    slightly outdated, the April 1, 1964 issue of "On Target" has some
    interesting suggestions for firearms:

    Adult Males: 30-06 Garands, 7.62 NATO FNs, 30-06 bolt-action
                 Springfields or Enfields, high-caliber sporting
                 rifles as desired, 12-gauge double barrel, pump or
                 semi-automatic shotguns.

    Adult Females: Winchester Model 100 in .308 caliber, Remington 
                   Model 742 in 30-06 caliber of 30-caliber military
                   carbines.

    Older Children: Sporting rifles in 6mm., .243, .270, .222 calibers.

    Younger Children: Semi-automatic .22 rifles.

    I also suggest newer productions, namely the TEC-DC9, the CAR-15, 
    the AR-15, and any Kalishnikov rifles (or their Chinese variants)
    that are available.  Necessary additions to these weapons would be
    silencers, clips, laser-targeting scopes, night-vision scopes, 
    and/or shoulder supports.

    In addition to buying guns, one can also produce makeshift guns if 
    one knows how they work.


    HOMEMADE STUN GUNS


                                  Materials
                                  ---------

    - 1 camera flash (rip this out of a cheap camera or buy a seperate one, 
      get the flashes that run off of a couple of double A's)
    - 1 hobby box (large enough to fit your disassembled flash in, get one 
      WITHOUT a metal base plate!)
    - 2 stainless steel nails
    - 2 1.3 volt AA batteries (for the flash)
    - 1 soldering iron and solder
    - 1 tube of super glue
    - 1 pair of wire cutters

    
    1.) First of all disconnect any batteries from your camera flash.
    2.) Take apart the camera flash and chuck out all the excess plastic 
        container.
    3.) Locate the flash tube (the bit that flashes, duh!), and cut the two 
        wire that lead to it.
    4.) Taking these two wires and solder each one to a seperate nail.
    5.) Now prepare your hobby box buy cutting two holes large enough to 
        slide the point of a nail through (the nails should be about .5 cm 
        apart), and cut a whole for the switch that was hooked up to the 
        flash originally.  Super glue all the parts in place.  Carefully 
        connect up your batteries (the battery compartment should be still 
        intact if you didn't butcher the camera flash too much when you 
        were taking it apart).  Ensure there are no exposed wires touching 
        each other. The finished hobby box should look like this:

                                  
                                    
              <====                 
              <====                              <==== - nails
                                                     - hobby box
                                                       - switch

    5.) Screw on the base plate and you're ready.

    To use it just flick on the switch and you should hear a high pitch 
    squeal starting to get louder.  Turn the switch off (the longer you 
    leave it on the greater the shock will be) and holding the box touch 
    someones skin with the tips of both the nails.  


    HOW TO MAKE A PSEUDO-GUN

    To do this, you first need to know how a gun works.  A gun is simply
    a bullet, in a type of vise, that has a sharp object shoved up its
    back very quickly, and explodes.  So basically, to build a pseudo-
    gun, take a vice type device, and make it an easy close/open vise
    operation (like a gun hammer).  Then, attach a mechanism that allows
    the operator to swing a nail, or other sharp object, into the back
    of the bullet quickly.  And there, you've got a gun!

    SILENCERS

    "     The advantages of a gun that makes no noise when fired are
    obvious.  In underground warfare the availability of such weapons
    would be invaluable to individuals or small combat teams forced to
    operate against a superior enemy force... The time may come when
    citizens may profit from a knowledge of how to construct such
    devices... Telescopic sights are often helpful.  Some companies
    make mounting rings that hold the telescopic sight well above the
    barrel of the rifle.  This may be sufficient for a silencer that is
    about two and one-half inches in diameter.  Special scope mounts may
    be purchased or constructed for silencers having a larger diameter..."

                  - From Minutemen pamphlet on how to build
                    your own gun silencer.
    
    
    HOW TO MAKE A ONE-USE SILENCER

    This is a simple way to make a one use silencer.  It only works once,
    for obvious reasons, as you will see.  Take an empty 12 ounce plastic
    soft drink container, and tape if firmly to the end of the gun/pistol/
    rifle.  Then, go ahead and shoot!  Keep in mind, this is not perfect,
    and it only works once, because once the bottle has a hole in it, it
    no longer will work.

    HOW TO MAKE A MULTI-USE SILENCER          
    
    Silencers made for multi-use for improvised small arms weapons 
    can be made from steel gas or water pipe and fittings.

    Material Required:
    
    Grenade Container
    Steel pipe nipple, 6 in. (15 cm) long - (see Graph 1 for diameter)
    2 steel pipe couplings - (see Graph 2 for dimensions)
    Cotton cloth - (see Graph 2)
    Drill
    Absorbent cotton

    Procedure:
    
    1.) Drill hole in grenade container at both ends to fit outside diameter 
        of pipe nipple. (see Graph 1)

                 ->    /----------------------\
                /     |                        |
        2.75 in |      )                      ( <-holes
         dia.   \     |                        |
                 ->   \-----------------------/
                      
                      |-----------------------|
                               5 in.

    2.) Drill four rows of holes in pipe nipple. Use Graph 1 for diameter and 
        location of holes.

                      
                                6 in.
                |-----------------------------------|
                _____________________________________ ___
                | O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O |  | C (nom. dia.)
                -------------------------------------
         (size of hole)   |                   \ / (space between)
                          B (dia.)             A

  
    3.) Thread one of the pipe couplings on the drilled pipe nipple.
    4.) Cut coupling length to allow barrel of weapon to thread fully into 
        low signature system. Barrel should butt against end of the drilled 
        pipe nipple.
    5.) Separate the top half of the grenade container from the bottom half.
    6.) Insert the pipe nipple in the drilled hole at the base of the bottom 
        half of the container. Pack the absorbent cotton inside the container and 
        around the pipe nipple.
    7.) Pack the absorbent cotton in top half of grenade container leaving a
        hole in center. Assemble container to the bottom half.
    8.) Thread the other coupling onto the pipe nipple.

    Note: A longer container and pipe nipple, with same "A" and "B" 
    dimensions as those given, will furthur reduce the signature of the 
    system.

    How to use:

    1.) Thread the silencer device on the selected weapon securely.
    2.) Place the proper cotton wad size into the muzzle end of the system 
       (see Graph 2)
    3.) Load weapon
    4.) Weapon is now ready for use

    Graph 1 -- Low Signature System Dimensions
    
                                            (Coupling)  Holes per   (4 rows)
                   A         B         C         D         Row        Total
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    .45 cal        3/8       1/4       3/8       3/8       12           48

    .38 cal        3/8       1/4       1/4       1/4       12           48

       9 mm         3/8       1/4       1/4       1/4       12           48

    7.62 mm        3/8       1/4       1/4       1/4       12           48

    .22 cal        1/4       5/32      1/8*      1/8       14           50
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
               *Extra Heavy Pipe
           (All dimensions in inches)


    Graph 2 -- Cotton Wadding - Sizes
    
    -------------------------------------------------
    Weapon                        Cotton Wadding Size
    -------------------------------------------------
    .45 cal                       1-1/2 x 6 inches

    .38 cal                       1 x 4 inches
     
       9 mm                       1 x 4 inches

    7.62 mm                       1 x 4 inches

    .22 cal                       Not needed
    -------------------------------------------------


    ARTILLERY

    Before i go into homemade artillery, i would like to make suggestions
    for heavy weapons worth actually buying.  Here they are:

             - RPG's (Rocket Propelled Grenades)
             - Self-Propelled Miniguns
             - Mortars
             - Anti-Vehicle Weapons and mines
             - If you can get your hands on them, AAA guns and anti-aircraft 
               missiles

    Improvised Artillery:

    There is a simple way to make a small artillery device for home defense
    use.  The easiest way to build it is described, and anyone with any
    knowledge of weaponry can make obvious substitutions if necessary.

    Take a thick and mediumly wide metal pipe.  Take a metal cap, drill a
    hole in it, and weld it on to one side of the metal pipe.  Now, take
    a firecracker (an M-80, or an M-100), and carefully drop it in the
    bottom of the pipe, putting the fuse through the hole in the cap.
    Now, place some tissue paper/toilet paper in the pipe.  Now, pour
    (NOT STUFF) some BB's, or metal pellets into the pipe.  Stuff some
    more toilet paper into the pipe.  Now pour some more bb's/pellets,
    and another layer of toilet paper.  Basically, now just prop this
    up against a tree or something, and you'll have a working artillery
    piece/mortar that can be very deadly if accurately aimed.  To make
    this weapon much more deadly, take heavy rocks, or the like, and place
    them in the pipe.  You can substitute black powder/gun powder/blasting
    powder and a fuse for the firecracker.  The firecracker just makes the
    business easier for the slow at intellect.

    Another type of artillery are Model Shrapnel Rockets.  Basically, fill
    the cone and the very upper portion of the rocket with gunpowder/black
    powder/etc.  Lead a fuse (judge the length of the fuse based on the
    range to target) from the cone to the engine.  Then pack the rest of the
    middle and inside of the rocket with lightweight materials like shards of
    glass, and fiberglass, nails, and whatnot.  Basically, just fire the 
    rocket slightly above your target.  When it explodes, the "shrapnel" on
    the inside will shoot out and maim/kill your target.

    Other types of model rockets can also be extremely useful.  Experimenting
    with them firsthand is the best solution, because it will enable you to
    determine what kind and what design is best for your uses.

    Another home-design type artillery device is a sprinkler hooked up to a
    pump-bucket filled with a gasoline/gunpowder/blackpowder mix.  Then, 
    start the pump, and have the sprinkler start going on the target area...
    when the bucket is nearly empty, strike a match and throw it.  You'll 
    a homemade HADES type weapon.  Basically, the air around the sprinkler,
    and everything touched by the spray will go up like spontaneous 
    combustion.

    FLARES

    If you would like to make a flare, there are several ways.  But the most
    original and interesting way would be the following:

    Take an Erienmeyer flask (the kind with the fat bottoms and thinly necked
    tops), and dump some Antimony powder at the bottom.  Then, while holding
    your nose, funnel some Chlorine Gas into the flask.  FOOM!  You'll have
    a flare gun for a few minutes.  The reaction is quick and bright.  The
    flask also gets warm, so be careful.


    - BOMBS AND PARAFANALIA -

    The Minuteman journal "On Target" continually stresses that if you
    are going to build bombs, build simple, easy to test and construct
    ones.  In fact, in notes from one training session, it reads "Black
    Powder is the best.  Put it in a 2" pipe, drill a hole in it, insert
    fuse, light the fuse, throw it, and run."  How do you make Black
    Powder?  The recipe followed directly afterward.

    Black Powder
        
    Place 5 pints of alcohol in a bucket. In another bucket, put 3 cups
    of granulated potassium nitrate, 2 cups powdered wood charcoal, and
    1/2 cup of powdered sulfur (can be obtained from match heads) into 
    the bucket. Add 1 cup of water and stir well with a wooden stick.  
    Place the bucket on a heat source and add 2 more cups of water and 
    wait for it to bubble but don't let it boil.  Remove the bucket from 
    the heat and pour it into the alcohol while stirring well.  Let the 
    alcohol stand for about 5 minutes.  Strain the liquid through 
    cheesecloth to remove the powder.  Wrap the cloth around the powder 
    and squeeze out the excess liquid.  Place a piece of screen on top 
    of a bucket.  Place a workable amount of black powder (That black 
    muddy looking stuff) on the screen and begin to work it through.  
    Spread the end result on a piece of newspaper and let it dry in 
    the sunlight.  

    The notes go on to describe another explosive that should be used
    under doors or entrances to sensitive rooms/buildings, called
    Ammonium Tri Iodide.  To make it:

    Mix solid Nitric Iodine (or take the liquid form, and evaporate the 
    liquid off) with household ammonia.  Wait overnight and pour off 
    the liquid.  You will be left with a muddy substance.  Let it 
    dry untill it hardens up.  To use it, put it in a bottle or can 
    and just drop it or throw it at something.

    Other types of powders and the such that are useful to know how to make:

    Gun Powder:

    1.) Pour 10ml of both Sulfuric and Nitric acid in a beaker.
    2.) Add come Cotton with the mixture of th acids.
    3.) Let it dry and crumble it into powder.

    Easy Gun Powder:

    1.) Put 100 grams of Potassium nitrate in beaker.
    2.) Put 100 grams of Sulfur in beaker.
    3.) Put 100 grams of charcoal in beaker.
    
    Flash Powder (Another useful ingredient for homemade flares):

    1.) Add 1 ounce of Sulfur in beaker.
    2.) Add 2 ounces of Sodium chlorate in beaker.
    3.) Add 1 ounce of 400 mesh aluminum powder in beaker.
    
    Greek Fire (A popular home explosive):

    1.) Add 100 grams of Potassium Nitrate in Beaker.
    2.) Add 100 grams of Charcoal in beaker.
    3.) Add 50 grams of Sulfur in beaker.
    4.) Add 50 grams of Sugar in beaker.
    
    Thermite (An extremely useful diversion weapon, as well as for
    destructive purposes):

    1.) Ground aluminum mesh into a powder.
    2.) Mix the powder carefully into an amount of Iron (III) Oxide.
    3.) When you wish to ignite the reaction, take a strip of Magnesium
        (other heat sources can be used, but this works best), and quickly
        place it in the mixture (back off very quickly).
    4.) The reaction is quick, explosive, and dangerous.  You must be very
        careful how you place the ignition source, and a fuse type design
        works best.  The reaction is so hot that the iron turns molten.
    
    Other bombs suggested by these notes, and other sources:

    Homemade Grenades

    During the Winter, or in a wet area, you can use a piece of a simple
    chemical that can be procured from any chemical supply store for a
    hand grenade.  Take a piece of potassium or rubydium (potassium is more
    stable, and easier to handle), and just throw it at water surrounding
    your target.  You will be more than suprised at what a small piece of
    chemical can do.  BOOM!

    Carbide Bomb

    This is EXTREMELY DANGEROUS.  Exercise extreme caution....
    Obtain some calcium carbide.  This stuff can be found at nearly any
    hardware store.  Take a few pieces of this stuff (it looks like gravel)
    and put it in a glass jar with some water.  Cover the jar tightly.  The
    carbide will react with the water to produce acetylene carbonate which
    is similar to the gas used in cutting torches.  Eventually the glass
    with explode from internal pressure.  If you leave a burning rag
    nearby, you will get a nice fireball.


    Exhaust Bomb (for a car)

    Install a spark plug into the last four or five inches of the tail
    pipe by drilling a hole that the plug can screw into easily.
    Attach a wire (this is regular insulated wire) to one side of the
    switch and to the spark plug. The other side of the switch is attached
    to the positive terminal on the battery. With the car running, simply
    hit the switch and watch the flames.


    The Hearts and Diamonds Bomb, A.K.A. the Pipe Bomb

    Take an old-style, non-laminated hearts or diamonds playing card, and
    stick in in a pvc or metal pipe.  Glug some glycerine hand lotion in
    it, and add a few shakes of potassium permanganate (snake-bite 
    medical formula in most medical kits).  Let it sit and absorb for a
    few hours, and then place it upon a hot radiator, or flame.

    
    The Mayonnaise Bomb

    Take an empty mayonnaise jar, and pour a few drops of gasoline in it.
    Roll the jar around to create a thin layer of gasoline inside the jar.
    Add a few shakes of potassium permanganate (snakebite formula), and
    cap the jar.  Now, leave it out in the sun for a few hours to
    evaporate the gas into the jar.  Then, throw the jar at something.


    Turn Signal Bomb (for a car)
    
    Detach the plastic running light (or turn signal) cover on someones
    car.  Break the bulb.  Test the bulb with a voltage meter to make sure
    it is not live. Pack the bulb with Flash Paper and replace the cover.
    When the person starts his car or goes to turn, a quick burst of flame
    will pop out of the back of his car making him think it is on fire.
    

    Piss Bomb (Uric Acid Explosive)

                                
                                MATERIALS
                                ---------

    - 1 cup concentrated solution of uric acid <Concentrated Piss> 
      (C5 H4 N4 O3)
    - 1/3 cup of nitric acid
    - 4 heat-resistant glass containers
    - 4 filters (coffee filters will do)


    Filter the concentrated solution of uric acid through a filter to remove 
    impurities.  Slowly add 1/3 cup of nitric acid to the solution and let 
    the mixture stand for 1 hour.  Filter again as before.  This time the 
    Urea Nitrate crystals will collect on the filter.  Wash the crystals by 
    pouring water over them while they are in the filter.  Remove the 
    crystals from the filter and allow 16 hours for them to dry.  This 
    explosive will need a blasting cap to detonate, or a suitable substitute.


    HEAVY EXPLOSIVES

    This next section may seem confusing at first.  However, you do not need
    to be a chemist to be able to understand and duplicate what is being
    shown here.  It is important for a militiaman to be able to make or have
    a source to make heavy explosives because of the opportunities this lends
    you.

    You've all read about the manure bomb that the fellows in Oklahoma
    used.  Well, here's a way to get the Potassium Nitrate direct from
    normal soil, instead of having to buy it.


    Potassium Nitrate

    The following recipe was found in the Improvised Munitions Handbook
    published by the Department of the Army.
                  
    Potassium nitrate can be extracted from many natural sources (soil) and 
    can be used to make nitric acid, black powder, and many pyrotechnics. 
    The yield ranges from 1% to 10% by weight, depending on the fertility 
    of the soil.

    Materials                         Source
    ---------                         ------
    
    Nitrate bearing earth or other    Soil contaying decaying animal 
    material, about 3-1/2 gallons.    or vegetable matter.

    Fine wood ashes, 1/2 cup.         Totally burned wood products.

    5 gallon bucket

    2 pieces of finely woven cloth,
    each slightly larger than the
    bottom of the bucket.

    Shallow pan or dish at least as
    large as bottom of bucket.

    Shallow heat resistant container
    ceramic or metal.

    Water, 1-3/4 gallons.

    Awl, knife screwdriver or other
    hole producing instrument.

    Alcohol (ethyl or isopropyl)
    1 gallon

    Heat source, fire, stove.

    paper

    Tape

    Procedure
    ---------
    1.) Punch holes in the bottom of the bucket so that the entire surface 
        is covered with them.

    2.) Place cloth flat on bottom of bucket.
        Spread ashes on cloth.
        Place second piece of cloth on top of ashes

    3.) Fill bucket with earth.

    4.) Place bucket over shallow container. Support bucket with sticks if 
        necessary.

    5.) Boil water and pour it over earth in bucket a little at a time. 
        Allow water to run through holes in bucket into shallow container. 
        Be sure water runs through all of the earth.  Allow liquid to cool 
        and settle for 1 to 2 hours.

    6.) Carefully drain liquid into heat resistant container.  Discard 
        sludge at bottom of shallow container.

    7.) Boil mixture over hot fire for at least 2 hours.  Small grains of 
        salt will appear in the solution.  Scoop these out as they form 
        and discard.

    8.) When liquid has boiled down to about half of its original volume,  
        remove from fire and let sit.  After half hour add an equal volume 
        of alcohol.

    9.) Make an improvised strainer out of paper tape and bucket.  Tape 
        paper so that it covers the top of a clean bucket.

    10.) Pour mixture through paper strainer.  Small white salt crystals 
         will collect on top of it.  These are potassium nitrate.

    11.) To purify the potassium nitrate, re-dissolve the dry crystals in  
         the smallest amount possible of boiled water (make sure they all 
         dissolve).  Remove any salt crystals that appear (step 7) pour 
         through an improvised filter made of several pieces of paper and 
         evaporate or gently heat solution to dryness.

    12.) Spread crystals on plat surface and allow to dry.  The potassium  
         nitrate crystals are now ready to use.


    This method was tested, and it is effective. Large quantities (1 to 2 
    pounds) of potassium nitrate can be obtained this way.  


    R.D.X. 
     
    RDX can be produced by the method given below.  It is much easier
    to make in the home than all other high explosives, with the possible
    exception of ammonium nitrate.
                                 
                                 MATERIALS
                                 ---------

    - hexamine or methenamine -   
    - 1000 ml beaker -          
    - ice bath -
    - glass stirring rod -        
    - thermometer -            
    - funnel -
    - filter paper -              
    - distilled water -        
    - ammonium nitrate -
    - nitric acid (550 ml) -      
    - blue litmus paper -      
    - small ice bath -
    
    1.) Place the beaker in the ice bath, and carefully pour 550 ml of 
    concentrated nitric acid into the beaker.
    
    2.) When the acid has cooled to below 20 , add small amounts of the
    crushed fuel tablets to the beaker.  The temperature will rise, and it 
    must be kept below 30 , or dire consequences could result.  Stir the 
    mixture.
    
    3.) Drop the temperature below zero degrees celsius, either by adding
    more ice and salt to the old ice bath, or by creating a new ice bath. 
    Continue stirring the mixture, keeping the temperature below zero for 
    twenty minutes.
    
    4.) Pour the mixture into 1 liter of crushed ice.  Shake and stir the
    mixture, and allow it to melt.  Once it has melted, filter out the 
    crystals, and dispose of the corrosive liquid.
    
    5.) Place the crystals into one half a liter of boiling distilled
    water.  Filter the crystals, and test them with the blue litmus paper. 
    Repeat steps 4 and 5 until the litmus paper remains blue.  This will 
    make the crystals more stable and safe.
    
    6.) Store the crystals wet until ready for use. Allow them to dry
    completely before using them. R.D.X. is not stable enough to use alone 
    as an explosive.
   
    A composition C-1 can be made to desensitize the explosive by mixing the 
    following ingredients. (measure by weight)
    
    Material                                Percent
    --------                                -------
    R.D.X.                                      88%
    mineral oil                                 11%
    lecithin                                     1%
   
    Knead these material together in a plastic bag.  This is one way to
    desensitize it.  There are other ways, but not always as simple.

    A neat extra thing to do to RDX is to create HMX, a mix of RDX and TNT; 
    the ratio is 50/50, by weight.  (Keep reading for the recipe for T.N.T.)
    It is not as sensitive as unadultered RDX and it is almost as powerful 
    as straight RDX.  By adding ammonium nitrate to the crystals of RDX 
    produced in step 5, it is possible to desensitize the R.D.X. and 
    increase its power, since ammonium nitrate is very insensitive and 
    powerful. Sodium or potassium nitrate could also be added; a small 
    quantity is sufficient to stabilize the RDX.
    
    Ammonium Nitrate 
    
    There are two ways to procure Ammonium Nitrate: making it, or stealing  
    it.  You can usually swipe it from any construction site, and if you've
    got plenty of money to play with, just buy Instant Cold-Paks.  A rather
    powerful priming charge must be used, or a booster charge must be added.  
    The primer explodes, detonating the T.N.T., which detonates, sending
    a tremendous shockwave through the ammonium nitrate, detonating it.

    To make ammonium nitrate the hard way, follow these easy instructions:
    Ammonium Nitrate - Fuel Oil Solution, also known as ANFO solves one of 
    the major problems with ammonium nitrate: its tendency to pick up water 
    vapor from the air.  This absorption results in the explosive failing 
    to detonate when fired.  This is less of a problem with ANFO because it 
    consists of 94% (by weight) ammonium nitrate mixed with 6% fuel oil 
    (kerosene).  The kerosene helps keep the ammonium nitrate from absorbing 
    moisture from the air.  This mixture, like straight ammonium nitrate, is 
    very insensitive to shock. It requires a very powerful shockwave to 
    detonate it, and is not very effective in small quantities.  Usually a 
    booster charge, consisting of dynamite or a commercial cast charge, is 
    used for reliable detonation.  Some commercial ANFO explosives have a 
    small amount of aluminum added, increasing the power and sensitivity. 
    These forms can often be reliably initiated by a No. 8 blasting cap.
    These disadvantages are outweighed by two important advantages of
    ammonium nitrate explosives- cost, and safety. In industrial blasting 
    these factors are much more important than in recreational activities, 
    and this has contributed to the popularity of these explosives.  If the 
    explosive is initiated without confinement it not propagate well, and 
    most of the ammonium nitrate will burn and scatter, rather than 
    detonation as most other high explosives would.  Ammonium nitrate 
    explosives are much cheaper per pound than most other explosives, with 
    the price per pound at about 1/10 that of dynamite.  Straight ammonium 
    nitrate can be transported to the blasting site without the extract 
    expenses incurred when transporting high explosives. At the site, the 
    ammonium nitrate, in the form of small pellets, or prills, can be mixed 
    with the fuel oil just prior to blasting.  If too much oil is added, the 
    power of the mixture will decrease, because the extra oil will absorb 
    some of the energy from the ammonium nitrate, and it tends to slow 
    propagation. If commercial fertilizer is used to provide the ammonium 
    nitrate, it must be crushed to be effective.  This is because fertilizer 
    grade ammonium nitrate is coated with a water resistant substance which 
    helps keep moisture from decomposing the material.  This material also 
    keeps the fuel oil from soaking into the ammonium nitrate.  If 
    fertilizer grade material is poured into a vat of warm, liquified wax, 
    the coating will be displaced by the wax, which can also serve as fuel
    for the ammonium nitrate. 

    T.N.T. (Tri Nitro Toluene)

    T.N.T is simply, at the molecule level, a benzene ring with three 
    nitrogens attached and the toluene characteristics.  In industrial 
    production TNT is made by a three step nitration process that is 
    designed to conserve the nitric and sulfuric acids, so that the only
    resource consumed in quantity is the toluene.  A person with limited 
    funds, however, should probably opt for the less economical two step 
    method.  This process is performed by treating toluene with very strong 
    (fuming) sulfuric acid.  Then, the sulfated toluene is treated with very 
    strong (fuming) nitric acid in an ice bath.  Cold water is added to the 
    solution, and the T.N.T. is filtered out.

    Potassium Chlorate (KClO3)

    Potassium chlorate itself cannot be made in the home, but it can be
    obtained from labs and chemical supply houses. It is moderately water
    soluble, and will explode if brought into contact with sulfuric acid. It 
    is toxic and should not be brought into contact with organic matter, 
    including human skin.  If potassium chlorate is mixed with a small 
    amount of vaseline, or other petroleum jelly, and a shockwave is passed 
    through it, the material will detonate, however it is not very powerful, 
    and it must be confined to explode it in this manner.  The procedure for 
    making such an explosive is outlined below:

                                   MATERIALS
                                   ---------
     
    - potassium chlorate -     
    - zip-lock plastic bag -   
    - wooden spoon -
    - petroleum jelly -        
    - grinding bowl -          
    - wooden bowl -

    1.) Grind the potassium chlorate in the grinding bowl carefully and
    slowly, until the potassium chlorate is a very fine powder.  The finer 
    the powder, the faster it will detonate, but it will also decompose more
    quickly.

    2.) Place the powder into the plastic bag.  Put the petroleum jelly into 
    the plastic bag, getting as little on the sides of the bag as possible,
    i.e. put the vaseline on the potassium chlorate powder.

    3.) Close the bag, and knead the materials together until none of the
    potassium chlorate is dry powder that does not stick to the main glob.  
    If necessary, add a bit more petroleum jelly to the bag.


    Napalm

    Well, most people know that the basic way to make napalm is: gasoline + 
    soap + fire = Chaos.  But for a more indepth look, keep reading.  Take a 
    bucket or a small bowl and fill it about 1/2 way with gasoline.  Leave 
    it out in the sun to heat up.  Also, it is possible to use a double 
    boiler and a hot water bath to heat it.  Then take a bar of soap 
    (depending on how much gas you used you will need more soap so have 
    plenty) and using a knife with teeth scrape the soap into shreds and dump 
    into the gas. after every bar of soap stir it slowly and keep adding 
    soap until it becomes a thick sludge.  Dont add too much or you'll either 
    ruin it, or cause an explosion.  Always make sure there is a little x-tra 
    gasoline in it.  However, do NOT touch it.  It is highly corrosive.  You  
    can also simply take the hot gasoline, and place a piece of styrofoam 
    in it.  The styrofoam will burn up, and the gasoline will turn to napalm.

    
    CHEMICAL WEAPONS 

    Chlorine Bomb

    Wrap some chlorine up in a paper towel and tie it up tight.  Next, tape
    it high on the inside of a Mayonnaise Jar (See illus). Fill the
    bottom of the jar up (don't touch the paper!) with PineSol. Screw the
    top back on and place it on the ground. When ready, knock the jar over
    and run. It will explode, and release a lot of chlorine gas, which is
    poisonous, and if ingested, is deadly.  

    A variant idea, is to do the same with a balloon instead of the
    Mayonnaise Jar.  Just send a few balloons to a reputed communist leader,
    and either stretch em so they pop very soon after being delivered, or 
    poke small holes in them.


                     /========\ <- Lid
                     |       *| <- Chlorine
                     |       *| <-
                     |        |
                     |'.'.'.'.| <- PineSol
                     |.'.'.'.'| <-
                     \________/ <-


    Tear Gas
      
    First, get some red pepper seeds, you can find them in a food
    store or in a nursery for plants.  You will need 4 ounces of them.
    The next step is to grind them up in a blender or in a mortar.

    Put the seeds into a coffe percolator with 16 ounces of distilled
    alcohol and percolate for 1/2 hour.

    After the 1/2 hour is up, you remove the alcohol liquid and what you
    have left if a couple table spoons of red liquid.  The red liquid is 
    added to 1/2 pint of mineral oil.  You can get mineral oil at any drug 
    store.  Once mixed, you have one nasty eye irritant and an effective
    chemical crowd deterrent.

    The way you use it is to put in a spray bottle and spray it at your 
    enemy.  You could use the top from a Windex bottle, cut the tube short 
    enough and put it in a medicine bottle, to form a type of Mace tube. 
    That way it is smaller.  If you have a pump sprinkler, you can make a 
    mass attack weapon.

   
V. The Enemies of the Right Wing

    The following rendition of the Bill of Rights for a modern America was
    found anonymously over internet.

    "As we approach the 21st Century, it's time to bring the wording up to
    date showing what we are and who we are.

    AMENDMENT I

    Congress shall make no law establishing religion, but shall act as if
    it did; and shall make no laws abridging the freedom of speech, unless
    such speech can be construed as "commercial speech" or "irresponsible
    speech" or "offensive speech;" or shall abridge the right of the
    people to peaceably assemble where and when permitted; or shall
    abridge the right to petition the government for a redress of
    grievances, under proper procedures.

    It shall be unlawful to cry "Fire!" in a theater occupied by three or
    more persons, unless such persons shall belong to a class declared
    Protected by one or more divisions of Federal, State or Local
    government, in which case the number of persons shall be one or more.


    AMENDMENT II

    A well-regulated military force shall be maintained under control of
    the President, and no political entity within the United States shall
    maintain a military force beyond Presidential control.  The right of
    the people to keep and bear arms shall be determined by the Congress
    and the States and the Cities and the Counties and the Towns (and
    someone named Fred.)


    AMENDMENT III

    No soldier shall, in time of peace, be quartered in any house without
    the consent of the owner, unless such house is believed to have been
    used, or believed may be used, for some purpose contrary to law or
    public policy.


    AMENDMENT IV

    The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers,
    and effects against unreasonable searches and seizures may not be
    suspended except to protect public welfare.  Any place or conveyance
    shall be subject to search by law enforcement forces of any political
    entity, and any such places or conveyances, or any property within
    them, may be confiscated without judicial proceeding if believed to be
    used in a manner contrary to law.


    AMENDMENT V

    Any person may be held to answer for a crime of any kind upon any
    suspicion whatever; and may be put in jeopardy of life or liberty by
    the state courts, by the federal judiciary, and while incarcerated;
    and may be compelled to be a witness against himself by the forced
    submission of his body or any portion thereof, and by testimony in
    proceedings excluding actual trial.  Private property forfeited under
    judicial process shall become the exclusive property of the judicial
    authority and shall be immune from seizure by injured parties.


    AMENDMENT VI

    In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to
    avoid prosecution by exhausting the legal process and its
    practitioners.  Failure to succeed shall result in speedy
    plea-bargaining resulting in lesser charges. Convicted persons shall
    be entitled to appeal until sentence is completed.  It shall be
    unlawful to bar or deter an incompetent person from service on a jury.


    AMENDMENT VII

    In civil suits, where a contesting party is a person whose private
    life may interest the public, the right of trial in the Press shall
    not be abridged.


    AMENDMENT VIII

    Sufficient bail may be required to ensure that dangerous persons
    remain in custody pending trial. There shall be no right of the public
    to be afforded protection from dangerous persons, and such protection
    shall be dependent upon incarceration facilities available.


    AMENDMENT IX

    The enumeration in The Constitution of certain rights shall be
    construed to deny or discourage others which may from time to time be
    extended by the branches of Federal, State or Local government, unless
    such rights shall themselves become enacted by Amendment.

    AMENDMENT X

    The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution
    shall be deemed to be powers residing in persons holding appointment
    therein through the Civil Service, and may be delegated to the States
    and local Governments as determined by the public interest.  The
    public interest shall be determined by the Civil Service."

    

    The following is a question taken from the Combat Arms Survey given to
    Marines at 29 Palms in California:

    "I would fire upon U.S. citizens who refuse or resist confiscation
    of firearms banned by the U.S. Government"

    Further information can be found in Conservative Chronicle, Vol 9, No
    44, Nov 2, 1994, page 11. "What became of liberal's devotion to
    privacy?" by Phyllis Schlafly.
     

    There are several groups that right wingers must take extreme caution
    around, and must be willing to act against.  They are not listed in
    any specific order, but you can tell which are more virulent than
    others.  To begin with, you must realize that the NRA description
    of federal agents as "jackbooted thugs" isnt so far off...

    ATF - Does anyone ever remember the creation of the ATF?  Why?
          Because the ATF is nothing better than the Gestapo.  It was
          designed to be used as a violent military squad against
          individuals who refuse to follow Big Brother into Armageddon.
          There is nothing wrong with shooting ATF agents.  (Keep in
          mind, i'm not sanctioning violence, i'm stating personal
          opinion.)  Have no regrets about this.  They are responsible
          for the massacre at Waco, the killing of Randall Weaver's 
          wife, and various other episodes.  The ATF would better be called 
          the KGB.  If our founding fathers saw the ATF, they'd ask where 
          their red coats were.  The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and 
          Firearms has no business meddling in anything but officework.
          

    FBI - The Minutemen once suggested that the FBI be renamed the FIB,
          Federal Investigation Bureau.  The FBI are very similar to the
          ATF, and cannot be trusted.  They were also parts of the
          debacles involving the ATF, and are at least guilty by 
          association.  The F.B.I. was the agency also responsible at
          Waco, the Weaver case, and various other episodes.  They are
          essentially a National Police Force, something that is fundamental
          to undermining a popular uprising or anti-government feeling.
          And they are certainly well described as "jackbooted thugs", as
          the NRA called it, and called it well.

    ATTU - These are individuals that are suspiciously hired by the
           Treasury Department (since when did political extremism be
           involved with the Treasury?) are there for the sole purpose
           of conducting espionage activities against right-wing groups
           and entrap people to convict in an unjust trial.

    Secret Service - There is but one thing to say.  It is not only by
                     coincidence that their initials are SS.  They are 
                     currently protected a socialist/communist dictator
                     who intends on extending the corrupting force of
                     liberal politics on us.  The Secret Service is meant
                     to shoot anyone who may threaten that evil individual.
                     Therefore, it is easy to see how they are the enemy.

    CPUSA - The communist party of the United States of America has not 
            only been proved to be a blatantly subversive espionage ring, 
            but it has been proved so by its own documents!  The Yale Press,
            a notoriously liberal college printing group, even released a
            number of documents taken from CPUSA archives in Moscow directly
            indicating sabotage and espionage on the part of CPUSA members.
            These documents also indicate that much of the so-called "red
            paranoia" in the 50's and 60's was "EXTREMELY WELL FOUNDED."

    CIA - This agency is basically the GRU of the United States of America.
          The government has expressed public doubt at times that the CIA
          even really answers to them.  Most believe that much of the info
          that the CIA collects, it keeps for its own uses.  The CIA is a
          corrupt government institution that is literally independent from
          the normal corrupted bureaucracy.  In times of strife, it could
          be very well used against the honest citizens of the United States.

    United Nations - The following was taken from a John Birch Society
                     Pamphlet titled "A Dozen Good Reasons to Get Us Out of
                     the United Nations"

                     "More and more Americans are coming to the chilling
                     realization that U.S. membership in the United Nations
                     poses a very real threat to our survival as a free
                     and independent nation.  Here are some good reasons to
                     be concerned:

                     1.) The UN's basic philosophy is both anti-American and
                     pro-totalitarian.  Our Declaration of Independence 
                     proclaims the 'self-evident' truth that 'men ... are
                     endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable
                     rights.'  But, in its Covenant on Civil and Political 
                     Rights, the UN ignores God's existence, implies that it
                     grants rights, and then repeatedly claims power 'as
                     provided by law' to cancel them out of existence.  If
                     any government can place restrictions on such
                     fundamental rights as freedom of speech, the right to
                     keep and bear arms, freedoms of the press, association
                     movement, and religion, soon there will be no such
                     freedoms.

                     2.) The UN was founded by Communists and CFR members
                     whose common goal was a socialist world government.
                     Sixteen key U.S. officials who shaped the policies
                     leading to the creation of the UN were later exposed in
                     sworn testimony as secret communists.  These included
                     Alger Hiss, chief planner of the 1945 founding
                     conference, and the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury
                     Harry Dexter White.  The Soviet Union under Stalin and
                     the entire CPUSA apparatus worked tirelessly to launch
                     the UN.  Since its beginning in 1921, the Council on
                     Foreign Relations (CFR) has always worked for world
                     government.  The key CFR founder, Edward Mandell House,
                     in his book, Philip Dru:Administrator, called for 
                     'Socialism as dreamed of by Karl Marx...'  The CFR was
                     an early promoter of the UN, and 43 members of the U.S.
                     delegation at the UN founding conference were or would
                     become CFR members.

                     3.) The UN has always chosen socialist one-worlders for
                     leaders.  The Secretary-General at the UN founding
                     conference was Soviet Spy Alger Hiss.  He was followed
                     as Secretary-General by Norwegian socialist Trygve Lie,
                     Swedish socialist Dag Hammarskjold, Burmese Marxist U
                     Thant, Austrian former Nazi Kurt Waldheim, Peruvian
                     socialist Javier Perez deCuellar, and Egyptian Socialist
                     Boutros Boutros-Ghali.  Each has consistently used the
                     full resources of the UN to promote Communist and
                     socialist causes around the world.  The Socialist
                     International (which proudly traces its origins to the
                     First International headed by Karl Marx) today claims
                     tens of millions of members in 54 countries.  At its
                     1962 Congress, it declared: 'The ultimate objective of
                     the parties of the Socialist International is nothing
                     less than world government... Membership of the United
                     Nations must be made universal...'  Almost all of the
                     UN's 'independent' commissions for the last thirty years
                     have been headed by members of the Socialist
                     International.

                     4.) The UN seeks power to control the environment, 
                     population, children... the world.  Both the 1972 UN
                     Environmental Program and the 1992 UN Conference on
                     Environment and Development laid plans to whip up
                     widespread environmental concerns (some exaggerated,
                     many completely fabricated).  These concerns would then
                     be used as justification for increasing UN authority on
                     environmental issues.  The statements and publications
                     of these UN programs leave little doubt that their goal
                     is a world government with the power to cancel national
                     sovereignty, regulate economic activity, and control the
                     human race -- all, of course, under the banner of
                     'protecting the environment.'  In late 1994, UN planners
                     meeting in Egypt approved a 20-year, $17 billion plan to
                     'stabilize' the world's population.  The UN's goal is to
                     reduce population selectively by encouraging abortion,
                     sterilization, and controlled human breeding.  The UN
                     Convention on the Rights of the Child also claims power
                     not only to grant rights but also to cancel them 'as
                     provided by law.'  It claims that governments must
                     guarantee children 'freedom of expression... freedom to
                     seek, receive, and impart information... freedom of
                     thought, conscience, and religion,' regardless of the
                     wishes of their parents.

                     5.) The UN Charter outlines the path to world tyranny.
                     After giving lip service about not intervening 'in 
                     matters which are essentially within the domestic
                     jurisdiction of any state...', the UN Charter continues
                     'but this principle shall not prejudice the application
                     of enforcement measures under Chapter VII.'  Chapter
                     VII discusses sanctions and boycotts, but if these are
                     decided to "be inadequate, it may take such action by
                     air, sea, or land forces as may be necessary to maintain
                     or restore international peace and security.'  The UN
                     used this broad assertion of authority as the pretext
                     for its armed intervention in the domestic turmoil in
                     Somalia and Haiti.

                     6.) The UN is building its own army to enforce its will.
                     In 1992, UN Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
                     fulfilling a directive from the UN Security Council,
                     unveiled An Agenda For Peace, a plan to strengthen UN
                     'peackeeping' capabilities.  The plan calls for armed
                     forces to be made available to the UN 'on a permanent
                     basis.'  It ominously warns, 'The time of absolute and
                     exclusive sovereignty has passed' and proceeds to name
                     a long list of 'risks for stability' that would be used
                     to justify use of the 'permanent' UN army to enforce
                     its will.  Incredibly, U.S. leaders are using America's
                     military to pave the way for this UN army.  In Bosnia,
                     Somalia, Haiti, and elsewhere, foreign UN commanders
                     have controlled our troops.  When 15 Americans were 
                     killed over Iraq in mid-1994, Vice-President Gore
                     extended condolences 'to the families of those who died
                     in the service of the United Nations.'  Even more
                     incredibly, it has been the official policy of the U.S.
                     government since 1961 to disarm America and create a UN
                     army.  This policy concludes: 'progressive controlled
                     disarmament would proceed to the point where no nation
                     would have the military power to challenge the
                     progressively strengthened UN Peace Force.'  (See State
                     Department publication 7277: Freedom from War.)

                     7.) The UN doesn't settle disputes -- it makes them
                     worse!  Our ambassador to the UN in 1982, although a UN
                     supporter, admitted, 'The UN has become an arena in
                     which countries are drawn into problems they might never
                     have become involved in.'  Ask yourself:  Should 
                     Seychelles or Benin or Guyana or Barbados have to take
                     sides in a clash that breaks out on the opposite side
                     of the world?  When centuries-old animosities erupt in
                     the former Yugoslavia, why does the UN inject its
                     presence with troops, blockades, bombing, and a parade
                     of speeches?  American troops serving as globocops for
                     the UN become targets for criminals and terrorists.  In
                     1983, 241 U.S. Marines were blown to bits at the Beirut
                     Airport.  Five years later, a U.S. Marine Lieutenant
                     Colonel was kidnapped and eventually murdered by Arab
                     terrorists while in a UN unit in Lebanon (he was unarmed
                     as required by the UN).  The UN 'peacekeeping mission'
                     in Somalia cost the lives of another 36 Americans in
                     1993.

                     8.) The UN ignores Communist atrocities but targets
                     non-communist nations and leaders.  When Soviet tanks
                     rolled into Hungary in the 1950's, when the Chinese
                     communists were murdering Tibetans in the 1960's, when
                     the Soviets were butchering civilians in Afghanistan in
                     the 1970's and 80's, when Chechnya was brutalized by
                     the Russians in the 1990's, the UN did nothing!  But
                     the UN declared tiny Rhodesia 'a threat to international
                     peace' in the 1960's, enabling pro-communist terrorist
                     Robert Mugabe to seize power.  And it was a UN-led
                     campaign that brought self-described communist and
                     convicted terrorist Nelson Mandela to power in South
                     Africa in the 1990's.

                     9.) The UN embraces communist China -- history's most
                     murderous criminal regime.  In 1949, anti-communist
                     Nationalist China, one of the UN's founding members, was
                     forced from the mainland to Taiwan by the Communists.
                     In 1971, the UN expelled Taiwan and embraced the brutal
                     Red Chinese government -- a government responsible for
                     over 35 million murders.  When the vote admitting Red
                     China was announced, UN delegates danced in the aisles
                     to show their contempt for America and their joy at the
                     triumph of Red China.

                     10.) The UN is an amoral cesspool filled with perverts
                     and fat cats.  In 1993, the UN Economic and Social
                     Council granted consultant status to the International
                     Gay and Lesbian Association which includes the North
                     American Man/Boy Love Association (advocates child
                     molestation) and the Dutch group Vereniging Martijn
                     (which also promotes use of children as sex objects).
                     In 1988, the top Belgian UN Children's Fund (UNICEF)
                     official was one of a group convicted of running a child
                     sex right.  Moral bankruptcy is commonplace in UN
                     operations.  In Zimbabwe, UNICEF-donated equipment
                     helped terrorists seize power.  In Vietnam, the
                     Communists received $13 million from UNICEF while untold
                     thousands of boat people fled for their lives.  Fat
                     Cats?  UN employees are paid 40% more than comparable
                     U.S. workers, have subsidized rent, take extravagant
                     vacations, are exempt from income taxes, avoid sales
                     taxes in UN stores, eat in discounted UN restaurants,
                     and park in discounted UN garages.  An ex-UNICEF 
                     official confirmed that 'pampered and cosseted staffs'
                     of various aid agencies 'absorb 80% of all UN
                     expenditures.'

                     11.) America supplies the money, the UN then finances
                     tyrants and assorted enemies of the U.S., and conditions
                     in the nations 'aided' grow worse.  U.S. taxpayers pay
                     25% of the UN budget plus 31% of the UN special-agency
                     budgets.  Additional billions of our dollars go to the
                     IMF, World Bank, and other UN-related lending agencies
                     where they have been used for incredibly wasteful and
                     subversive UN projects.  (Not suprising since these
                     agencies were designed by Soviety agent Harry Dexter
                     White and Fabian Socialist John Maynard Keynes.)  
                     Socialist International spokesman Hilary Marquand aptly
                     described the IMF as 'in essence a Socialist 
                     conception.'  World Bank 'aid' funds went to brutal
                     Marxist dictator Mengistu while he was causing large-
                     scale starvation and death in Ethiopia; to Tanzanian
                     dictator Julius Nyerere as he drove peasants off their
                     land and burned their huts; and to the Vietnamese
                     Communists, sending thousands of boat people into the
                     sea.  Even Newsweek Magazine concluded that the UN's
                     foreign aid programs tend 'to prop up incompetent
                     governments or subsidize economies so they can never
                     stand on their own.'

                     12.) The UN is a war organization, NOT a peace 
                     organization.  Article 42 of the UN Charter claims
                     authority to 'take such action by air, sea or land
                     forces as may be necessary to maintain or restore
                     international peace and security.'  But the UN
                     definition of 'peace' is never given.  Tyrannical 
                     regimes throughout history have defined 'peace' as the
                     absence of all opposition.  To achieve 'peace' in 
                     Katanga in 1961, UN planes bombed hospitals, schools,
                     administrative buildings, and private homes.  Katanga
                     was an anti-communist province of the Belgian Congo
                     seeking freedom from the Communist-controlled central
                     government.  The UN is not now, and has never been, a
                     peace organization.  It will use whatever military 
                     power it is given to force all nations of the world to
                     submit."

    Government - Government bureaucracy agencies are in general enemies of      
                 the right and of freedom.  They restrict Americans unfairly
                 and they steal our tax dollars and waste them.  Civil
                 service employees are people that have ridden in on the
                 coattails of corrupt politicians, and are therefore to be
                 considered the enemy as well.


    WHO IS NOT THE ENEMY?

    The National Guard - Never shoot a National Guardsman.  The National
                         Guard is made up of almost completely civilians,
                         A Minutemen bulletin in New Jersey instructed
                         the following:

                         "UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES TRY ANY DOORSTEP HEROICS
                         BY SHOOTING IT OUT WITH THOSE WHO COME FOR YOUR
                         WEAPON!  Most likely the National Guard will be
                         the unlucky ones selected for gun roundup.  DON'T
                         SHOOT NATIONAL GUARDSMEN.  Many of them are
                         already in our organization and many others are
                         fully sympathetic with our position..."

    The Armed Forces - Again, for the most part, our Armed Forces are 
                       friendly to the right-wing.  The high command tends
                       to stick with the government, but lower officers 
                       and GI's are either friendly to the right wing, or
                       very pliable to the position.  Even divisions such
                       as the Green Berets who are supposed to be die hard
                       government warriors are friends to the right.

    Local Police - To take an old addage from the right, "Support Your
                   Local Police."  No matter what group you are considering,
                   almost all of them condemn violence against local police
                   forces.  The Police and local law enforcement in general
                   can be a valuable tool to have on our side.  


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   PRISONER OF WAR

   If you should get caught by these government thugs, you must know what to
   do.  Just state your name, rank (if in a militia, but not the militia
   name), or social security number.  According to Minutemen tests with truth
   serums, for the most part, they dont work.  You must be able to withstand
   heavy questioning.  According to Minutemen testing data, a person will
   tell more under 1 hour of grueling interrogation than under 5 hours of
   truth serum.

   What happens if they give you a lie detector test?  Well, there are 
   several easy ways to beat it.  To the extent that the polygraph works at
   all, it works because people believe it does.  Many criminals confess
   during polygraph examinations.  Many employees are more honest for fear
   of periodic screenings.  But a dummy polygraph that hummed and scribbled
   preprogrammed tracings would be no less effective in these instances.
   David Thoreson Lykken estimates that lie-control polygraph tests are about
   70 percent accurate.  (Remember, though, that choosing "heads" or "tails"
   of a flipped coin can be accurate 50 percent of the time.)  Accuracy of
   70 percent is not impressive, but it is high enough to talk meaningfully
   of beating a polygraph test.  Just by having read this far, you stand
   a greater chance of beating a polygraph test.  You won't be wowed by the
   fancy dials and pretests.  You realize that the polygraph's powers are
   limited.  There are two additional techniques for beating the polygraph.
   The more obvious is to learn how to repress psychological responses to
   stressful questions.  Some people are good at this;  others are not.  Most
   people can get better by practicing with a polygraph.  Of course, this
   training requires a polygraph, and polygraphs are expensive.  The opposite
   approach is to pick out the control questions in the pretest discussion
   and exaggerate reactions to these questions during the test.  When the 
   control-question responses are greater than the relevant-question 
   responses, the polygrapher must acquit the subject.  Because breathing is
   one of the parameters measured, taking a deep breath and holding it will
   record as an abnormal response.  Flexing the arm muscles under the cuff
   distorts the blood-pressure reading.  But a suspicious polygrapher may
   spot either ruse.  A more subtle method is to hide a tack in one shoe.
   Stepping on the tack during the control questions produces stress 
   reactions with no outward signs of fidgeting.  Biting the tongue 
   forcefully also works.

   Finally, do not answer any questions, or submit to any tests without your
   lawyer present.  This is very important.  There are several Patriot
   Defense Funds out there in many militia groups that help support legal
   fees for defendants belonging to the right wing if they have trouble
   paying for top class legal support.



VI. Final Notes

    For any additional information, there are several sources to receive data
    for technical, ideological, or other subjects.  Rush Limbaugh has a  
    fairly good show on Sunday mornings.  Gordon Liddy has an excellent right
    wing radio show, that is very worth listening to.  (Liddy was one of the
    men involved with the actual Watergate breakin).  The Anarchists Cookbook
    can be purchased from many mail-order stores and bookstores.  There are
    other manuals which are very valuable for technical support:  The
    Renegade Cookbook, the Big Book of Mischief, the Home Defense Guide,
    Kitchen Improved Explosives, etc.  Remember: the key to freedom is 
    information... get informed!

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Well, i'm sad to say this is the end.  But, with your continued support and
interest, further versions of this manual will be published.  If we get a 
big enough correspondence, perhaps a bound and illustrated version can be
produced.  Until then, if you have any articles for consideration, comments,
or questions regarding this manual, please email polaris@np.newpower.com.

Hopefully, we shall soon establish a page for this document and other DiP
productions.  If you want to post this file on any pages, or whatever, go
ahead, so long as you inform me where it is, and i can make sure it is being
used properly.  Keep an eye out, and happy hunting!

And always remember the words of Martin Luther King Jr.:

"We shall overcome, we shall overcome..."

