          
          
          
               Sell American...and Make a Fortune Doing It!
          
               What would happen if, in your business, all you
          did was "buy" from yourself?
               You wouldn't make very much money, would you?
               Think about it!  That's exactly what this country
          would be doing if we only "Buy American."
               Every time we sell an American made product in the
          international marketplace, those dollars come back into
          the U.S. economy, increasing profits, creating jobs,
          making America stronger.  80% to 85% of U.S. businesses
          don't export.  
               But American products are in demand.  Amway
          recently went into Mexico, expecting $3 to $4 million
          in sales the first year.  Instead they hit $15 million
          in sales the first year and $50 million the second
          year, and said that they have never seen such strong
          demand for American products in any of the more than 20
          countries they are now in.
               Yet it seems that when someone thinks about
          getting into international trade, they decide to import
          instead of export.  Actually, exporting is just as easy
          as, maybe even easier than, importing.  Besides, as an
          importer, you have to buy things to sell here...that
          takes money.  But, as an exporter, you are selling
          things overseas...which doesn't take much money at all.
               As a matter of fact, you can actually start your
          own export business for a couple hundred dollars.  Your
          very first order could easily return your investment
          ten-fold or more.  There are thousands upon thousands
          of products you can start exporting tomorrow!  Most of
          the books and courses on exporting being offered today
          are theoretical, not practical.  In reality, selling
          overseas is no more difficult than a company in New
          York selling & shipping a product to a buyer in
          California.  
               The most useful complete startup is a manual
          called "Sell American", and you can get free
          information on it by writing to Sell American, Dept.
          70197, P. O. Box 5385, Cleveland TN 37320.   Once you
          finish reading "Sell American" you can export U.S. made
          products simply and easily, and start earning your
          fortune in the international marketplace.
               With the end of the cold war, unification of
          Europe, the breakup of the Soviet Union, and free trade
          agreements being established in the Americas, every
          entrepreneur should now recall the words of Thomas
          Jefferson -- "A merchant, by his very nature is a
          citizen of the world."  While the governments discuss
          the issues of world trade, it is up to us as merchants
          (entrepreneurs) to meet the challenge head-on with
          action, instead of talk.  As an American entrepreneur,
          you should make it your responsibility to "Sell
          American."
          
          
          
