MUST YOU PAY INCOME TAX?
FOR INDIVIDUALS, INCOME TAX IS A VOLUNTARY TAX
.
   The above statement makes many people skeptical when
tehy read it. However, the basic reason for the truth of
the statement is really very simple.
.
THE U.S. CONTITUTION   F O R B I D S THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT TO IMPOSE ANY TAX DIRECTLY UPON
INDIVIDUALS.
.
INDIVIDUALS VOLUNTARILY IMPOSE AN INCOME TAX UPON
THEMSELVES WHEN THEY FILE AN INCOME TAX RETURN.
.
  Read on and learn why. You will be glad you spent
a few minites to learn about these important facts.
.
           AMERICANS ARE CONFUSED
              AND DECEIVED
.
   Before World War II, individuals' wages were not
considered to be subject to income taxes. During the war a
"Victory Tax" was imposed on wages as an emergency measure
to help pay for the war. The people did not realize that
government could not constitutionally impose any tax
directly on them, so they assumed that individuals and
their earnings could be taxed directly.
   The Internal Revenue Service intentionally promoted this
misunderstanding of taxing power through clever wording
of its statements, publications and propaganda news
releases. Consequently, Americans have been deceived into
believing that they are required to pay an income tax which
is laid on them directly by govenment. However, when the
IRS's publications, U.S. Supreme Court decisions and the
Internal Revenue Code (income tax law) are studied
carefully, they show that for individuals, paying income
tax is voluntary and that the filing of tax forms is also
a voluntary action that is not required by law.
.
         CONSTITUTIONAL LIMITATIONS ON
              TAXING POWER
.
  In order to understand why paying income tax and filing
tax forms are voluntay actions for individuals, it is 
essential to understand the limitations on federal 
taxation embodied in the  United States Constitution.The 
statemen who wrote the Constitution were fully aware of 
the dangers to liberty allowing a central govenment to 
impose taxes directly upon individuals or upon property. 
.
Tyranny resulting from direct taxation of individuals had
led to the American Revolution only 12 years earlier when
all the taxes collected amounted to less than 5% of the 
colonists earnings. This tyranny was referred to in the 
Declaration of Independence where in describing the 
reasons for the revolution, the founding fathers 
stated:"He(King George III) has erected a multitude 
of New Offices, and sent hither swarms of Officers 
to harass our people, and eat out their substance".
.
   Because of the knowledge of these facts, the framers
of the Constitution include not one, but two limitations
in the Constitution that absolutely forbid the federal 
government to impose any direct taxes upon individuals 
or upon property. All direct taxes are required to be 
"apportioned", which means that they must be laid upon 
the state governments in proportion to earch state's 
population.
  The limitations forbidding direct taxation of individuals
are found first in Article 1, Section 2, Clause 3, which 
states:"Representative4s and direct Taxes shall be 
apportioned among the several States which may be 
included within this YUnion, according to their 
respective numbers..", and again in Artical 1, Section 9,
Clause 4, which states: "No Capitation or other direct 
Tax shall be laid, unless in Proportion to the Census or 
Enumeration hereinbefore directed to be taken." These 
basic sections of the have never been repealed or 
amended. The Constitution still forbids direct taxation 
of individuals and property.
.
           16th AMENDMENT MISINTERPRETED
                  (DELIBERATELY)
.
call Bob Huebner for the rest of text.
His number is (602)954-8885.
