
THE UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS

    WHEREAS recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and
inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation
of freedom, justice and peace in the world,

    WHEREAS disregard and contempt for human rights have resulted in
barbarous acts which have outraged the conscience of mankind, and the
advent of a world in which human beings shall enjoy freedom of speech
and belief and freedom from fear and want has been proclaimed as the
highest aspiration of the common people,

    WHEREAS, it is essential, if man is not to be compelled to have
recourse, as a last resort, to rebellion against tyranny and
oppression, that human rights should be protected by the rule of law,

    WHEREAS it is essential to promote the development of friendly
relations between nations,

    WHEREAS the peoples of the United Nations have in their Charter
reaffirmed their faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and
worth of the human person and in the equal rights of men and women and
have determined to promote social progress and better standards of life
in larger freedoms,

    WHEREAS Member States have pledged themselves to achieve, in
cooperation with the United Nations, the promotion of universal respect
for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

    WHEREAS a common understanding of these rights and freedoms is of
the greatest importance for the full realization of this pledge,

    NOW, THEREFORE, THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY PROCLAIMS this Universal
Declaration of Human Rights as a common standard of achievement for all
peoples and all nations, to that end that every individual and every
organ of society, keeping this Declaration constantly in mind, shall
strive by teaching and education to promote respect for these rights
and freedoms and by progressive measures, national  and international,
to secure their universal and effective recognition and observance,
both among the peoples of Member states themselves and among the
peoples of territories under their jurisdiction.

ARTICLE 1.
    All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They
are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one
another in a spirit of brotherhood.

ARTICLE 2.
    Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in
this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race,
colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national
or social origin, property, birth, or other status.Furthermore, no
distinction shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional
or international status of the country or territory to which a person
belongs, whether it be independent, trust, non-self-governing or under
any other limitation of sovereignty.

ARTICLE 3.
    Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person.

ARTICLE 4.
    No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave
trade shall be prohibited in all their forms.

ARTICLE 5.
    No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or
degrading treatment or punishment.

ARTICLE 6.
    Everyone has the right to recognition everywhere as a person before
the law.

ARTICLE 7.
    All are created equal before the law and are entitled without any
discrimination to equal protection of the law. All are entitled to
equal protection against any discrimination in violation of this
Declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination.

ARTICLE 8.
    Everyone has the right to an effective remedy by the competent
national tribunals for acts violating the fundamental rights granted
him by the constitution or by law.

ARTICLE 9.
    No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention, or exile.

ARTICLE 10.
    Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing
by an independent and impartial tribunal, in the determination of his
rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him.

ARTICLE 11.
    (1) Everyone charged with a penal offense has the right to be
presumed innocent until proved guilty according to law in a public
trail at which he has had all the guarantees necessary for his defense.
    (2) No one shall be held guilty of any penal offense on account of
any act or omission which did not constitute a penal offense , under
national or international law, at the time when it was committed. Nor
shall a heavier penalty be imposed than one that was applicable at the
time the penal offense was committed.

ARTICLE 12.
    No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his
privacy, family, or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and
reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against
such interference or attacks.

ARTICLE 13.
    (1) Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence
within the borders of each state.
    (2) Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own,
and to return to his country.

ARTICLE 14.
    (1) Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy, in other countries,
asylum from persecution.
    (2) This right may not be invoked in the case of prosecutions
genuinely arising from non-political crimes or from acts contrary to
the purposes and principles of the United Nations.

ARTICLE 15.
    (1) Everyone has the right to a nationality.
    (2) No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality nor
denied the right to change his nationality.

ARTICLE 16.
    (1) Men and women of full age, without any limitation due to race,
nationality, or religion, have the right to marry and found a family.
They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during marriage and
at its dissolution.
    (2) Marriage shall be entered into only with the free will and full
consent of the intending spouses.
    (3) The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society
and is entitled to protection by society and the State.

ARTICLE 17.
    (1) Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in
association with others.
    (2) No one shall arbitrarily be deprived of his property.

ARTICLE 18.
    Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and
religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief,
and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or
private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice,
worship and observance.

ARTICLE 19.
    Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this
right includes to hold opinions without interference and to seek,
receive, and impart information and ideas through any media and
regardless of frontiers.

ARTICLE 20.
    (1) Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and
association.
    (2) No one may be compelled to belong to an association.

ARTICLE 21.
    (1) Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his
county, directly or through freely chosen representatives.
    (2) Everyone has the right of equal access to public service in his
country.
    (3) The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of
government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine
elections which shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free
voting procedures.

ARTICLE 22.
    Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security
and is entitled to realization, through national effort and
international cooperation and in accordance with the organization and
resources of each State, of the economic, social, and cultural rights
indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his
personality.

ARTICLE 23.
    (1) Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to
just and favorable conditions of work and to protection against
unemployment.
    (2) Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal pay
for equal work.
    (3) Everyone who works has the right to just and favorable
remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence worthy of
human dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by other means of social
protection.
    (4) Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the
protection of his interests.

ARTICLE 24.
    Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable
limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay.

ARTICLE 25.
    (1) Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the
health and well being of himself and of his family, including food,
clothing, housing, and medical care and necessary social services, and
to the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness,
disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in
circumstances beyond his control.
    (2) Motherhood and childhood are entitled to special care and
assistance. All children, whether born in or out of wedlock, shall
enjoy the same social protection.

ARTICLE 26.
    (1) Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at
least in the elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education
shall be compulsory. Technical and professional education shall be made
generally available and higher education shall be equally accessible to
all on the basis of merit.
    (2) Education shall be directed to the full development of the human
personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms. It shall promote understanding, tolerance and
friendship among all nations, racial or religious groups, and shall
further the activities of the United Nations for the maintenance of
peace.
    (3) Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that
shall be given to their children.

ARTICLE 27.
    (1) Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural
life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific
advancement and its benefits.
    (2) Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and
material interests resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic
production of which he is the author.

ARTICLE 28.
    Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in which
the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration can be fully
realized.

ARTICLE 29.
    (1) Everyone has duties to the community in which alone the free and
full development of his personality is possible.
    (2) In the exercise of his rights and freedoms, everyone shall be
subject only to such limitations as are determined by law solely for
the purpose of securing due recognition and respect for the rights and
freedoms of others and of meeting the just requirements of morality,
public order and the general welfare in a democratic society.
    (3) These rights and freedoms may in no case be exercised contrary
to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.

ARTICLE 30.
    Nothing in this Declaration may be interpreted as implying for any
State, group or person and right to engage in any activity or to
perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and
freedoms set forth herein.
 
 
 


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Salted Slug Systems                      Strange              408-454-9368
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   415-567-7043
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 Tomorrow's 0rder of Magnitude            Finger_Man           408-961-9315
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
       arcane knowledge, political extremism, diversive sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
