

                                      WAR


                The smell of rotting human flesh was heavy in the air.
          It was a something you'd remember for the rest of your life.
          War is hell, I've heard.  Now I know!
               The battle against German troops near a quaint, obscure
          French village had been going on  for days.   This miserable
          rain had soaked us to the skin. 
               Every  house  in  the  village had grape vines in their
          yards.  Yet there was no one to pick beautiful bunches which
          seemed to  beg to be harvested.  The Germans were experts in
          booby trapping the vines and many  who tried  to pick grapes
          paid for it with  their lives.  It isn't  very pretty to see 
          people killed and draped over vines that way.
               Suddenly, we heard mortar  shells headed  in our direc-
          tion.   We dove  for our foxholes.  This was a fierce battle
          and apparently we had backed the  German troops  into one of
          their supply depots.  They never were short of ammunition.
               In a  momentary lull,  we heard  voices.  To our amaze-
          ment, three elderly French people were walking along  a road
          like they  were on  a Sunday stroll.  They paid no attention
          to the  foreboding sounds  of the  shells and  bullets.  The
          roads in  this area  were built  higher than the surrounding
          ground to prevent flooding  during rain  storms.   This high
          road bed  made them look like targets in a shooting gallery.
          None of us could believe they hadn't already been wounded or
          even killed.
               They were  absolutely dazed.   Two old women and an old
          man, in tattered old coats, carrying what they could have of
          their possessions.
               Two of  us ran toward them, keeping our profiles as low
          to the ground as we could.  They paid no attention to  us as
          we approached.
               "Please,"  we  pleaded  with  them in our basic French,
          "get off this road until the shelling is over.   Do you want
          to get  yourselves killed?   There  has been  enough of that
          here already."
               They paid no attention to our  pleas.   They were  in a
          daze and numb.  We finally just grabbed them and pulled them
          into the ditch away from the direction of the shells.
               "Please, stay here until the shelling stops.  We'll let
          you know when it's safe to go on."
               The older  of the  two women finally understood what we
          were telling them to do.  She told  the others  to stay here
          with her  until it  was safe  to go  on.  We returned to our
          positions certain we had the three safe for now. 
               It was a  good  feeling  we  had  then.    Suddenly the
          thought hit  me.   Here we  were in the middle of the French
          countryside making the world  safe for  democracy.   We were
          killing or being killed.  How grand and glorious!  Did those
          three poor harmless old people know we were here to make the
          
          world safe for democracy?
               It really didn't make much sense to me.  Our government
          had been telling us for years we were  fighting an  enemy to
          make the world safe for democracy.  The raving of mad men.
               DEMOCRACY IS  THE WORST  OF ALL  POLITICAL EVILS!  This
          was the consensus of our Founding Fathers.   They considered
          democracy a dirty word.
               James  Madison  wrote  "[D]emocracies  have  ever  been
          spectacles of  turbulence  and  contention;  have  ever been
          found  to  be  incompatible  with  personal  security or the
          rights of  property; and  have in  general been  as short in
          their  lives  as  they  have  been violent in their deaths."
          (The Federalist Papers, No.  10.   All references  to 'paper
          no.' in this book are from The Federalist Papers.)
               It was  an agreement  shared by the men who were at the
          drafting of our Constitution in May of 1787.
               Where does the notion come from that the  United States
          is a  democracy?   The word democracy or democratic does not
          even appear in our Constitution.  Nowhere.
               When did they decide we are  a democracy?   This sounds
          ominously like  the 'newspeak'  which George Orwell spoke of
          in his book 1984.  World War I and II were billed as wars to
          make the  world safe for democracy.  What a sham put over on
          Americans!  
               Look  at  our  pledge  of  allegiance.  "[A]nd  to  the
          Republic  for  which  it  stands.  .  ."    That doesn't say
          anything about a democracy, does it?
               Yet, this is all we hear today.   No one  ever mentions
          we are a republic.  This has been intentional since as James
          Madison said,  democracies  are  inconsistent  with personal
          security or  the rights  of property.  The philosophy of the
          IRS!
               The word republic is  derived from  the Latin  'res', a
          thing, and 'publicus', belonging to the people.
               Webster  defines  a  republic  as a nation in which the
          supreme power rests in all  citizens  entitled  to  vote and
          exercised by  representatives elected, directly or indirect-
          ly, by them and responsible to them. 
               The people we have  elected  throughout  the  years are
          trying to  convince us  that our country is now a democracy.
          That way they no longer need to consider  themselves respon-
          sible to those who elected them.  Remember the pay raises?
               Perhaps  they  trying  to  create  the  dissension  and
          turbulence which James Madison cautioned us about.  
               Another statement heard from government honchos  is "We
          would like to see a democracy established in such and such a
          country."  Just a slip of the tongue?
               Let's examine some of the notes taken by several people
          during  the  Constitutional  Convention  in  Philadelphia in
          1787.  One of the best  sources is  a government publication
          titled "Documents Illustrative of the Formation of the Union
          of the American States".    (House  Document  No.  398, 69th
          Congress, 1st Session, 1965) 
               Another  book  which  details  the deliberations of the
          
          convention is "Notes of Debates in the Federal Convention of
          1787" by  James Madison.  Ohio University Press printed this
          book in 1966.
               Two points are  recurrent  throughout  the  debates and
          speeches of  the convention.   The  new government was to be
          republican and they despised and feared democracy. 
               Note  particularly  Article  IV,   Section  4   of  our
          Constitution  which   states:    "The  United  States  shall
          guarantee to every State in this Union a  Republican Form of
          government . . . ." 
               Governor  Edmund  Randolph  of  Virginia  presented the
          first plan to  the  Constitutional  Convention.    The above
          statement  was  in  all  three texts of resolutions proposed
          including those  in secret  debates.   They never questioned
          the republican  concept and  it's in  the document as we can
          see.
               Dr. James McHenry of  Maryland agreed  saying, "None of
          the  state  constitutions  provide sufficient checks against
          democracy."
               Alexander Hamilton of New York makes the statement that
          we are now forming a republican government.
               These were the feelings and convictions of our Founding
          Fathers.  One of  their fears  was a  democracy could easily
          turn  into  a  monarchy.    By looking at the period this is
          understandable.
               Hamilton further observes there are "Two  principles in
          which Americans  are unanimous, (1) attachment to Republican
          government and (2) to  two branches  of legislature."   This
          same  thought  was  often  heard  from  Col. George Mason of
          Virginia.
               Neither Gov. Randolph or Col. Mason signed the finished
          proposed document.  Both felt the power given to Congress by
          the document was dangerous.  They  wanted another convention
          to  consider  the  amendments  proposed by each state as the
          Constitution was ratified.  Sadly, this never occurred.
               Col. Mason feared the dangerous power  and structure of
          the  government  and  his  conclusion was "that it would end
          either in monarchy, or  a tyrannical  aristocracy; which, he
          was  in  doubt,  but  one  or  the  other,  he was sure."  A
          tyrannical democracy would be closer to the truth today.  
               On page 952 of Documents Illustrative  of the Formation
          of the  Union of  the American States, we find the following
          interesting little story which happened when  the convention
          was completed:  (punctuation added)
               A lady  asked Dr. Franklin,  "Well Doctor, what have we
          got?  A republic or a monarchy?"  "A republic,"  replied the
          Doctor, "if you can keep it."
               His admonition  was prophetic.  We haven't been able to
          keep it.
               Webster defines a democracy  in part  as majority rule.
          That's precisely what we have today.  The majority has found
          they can  get our  elected representatives  to violate their
          oaths.    They  pass  laws  to  take money out of the public
          treasury to give to  those who  produce nothing.   Democracy
          
          then reigns.    
               When did  this turn  about?   There is  NO authority to
          dispense  public  funds  beyond  the  permission   which  we
          entrusted when we agreed to this business of government.
               The  supremacy  clause  is  verification  .  .  . "This
          Constitution, and the Laws of the United States  which shall
          be made in pursuance thereof . . shall be the supreme Law of
          the Land;"
               There it is in a  nutshell.    ALL  laws  made  have to
          comply with  the warrant we granted in the basic document or
          they are not laws.  This  is what  makes the  command of due
          process of  law so  important.   If any  law goes beyond the
          grant of power, there is no due process of law!  And  we are
          not required to obey such a law.
               To  hold  the  feet  of  the  people  working  for  the
          federales to the fire, we included the requirement  that all
          elected Senators  and Representatives, as well as anyone who
          works for government, take an oath to support  the supremacy
          of the Constitution.  (Art VI, Sec 3).
               In  paper  No.51,  Madison  states  that it is of great
          importance in a republic  to guard  the society  against the
          oppression of  its rulers.  It is equally important to guard
          one part of society against the injustice of the other part.
               We now  have  part  of  society  not  protected against
          oppression by  rulers or from the injustices of another part
          of our society.  Another warning not heeded.
               Let's take another look at  paper  No.  57  by Madison:
          The House  of Representatives are restrained from oppressive
          measures in "that they can make no law  which will  not have
          its full  operation on themselves and their friends, as well
          as the great mass  of society  . .  It creates  between them
          that communion  of interests  and sympathy  of sentiments of
          which few governments have  furnished examples;  but without
          which every government degenerates into a tyranny.  If it be
          asked, what is to restrain the House of Representatives from
          making legal  discriminations in  favor of  themselves and a
          particular class of society?  I answer:   the genius  of the
          whole system;  the nature  of just  and constitutional laws;
          and, above all, the vigilant and manly spirit which actuates
          the people  of America  -- a spirit which nourishes freedom,
          and in return is nourished by it."
               "If this spirit shall ever  be  so  far  debased  as to
          tolerate a  law not obligatory on the legislature as well as
          on the people, the people will be ready to tolerate anything
          but liberty."
               It's  common  knowledge  today that Congress passes all
          sorts of laws but  exempts themselves  and their  staff from
          any requirement to be held accountable.  What horse manure!
               Madison  said  the  vigilant  and  manly  spirit  which
          inspires Americans and  in  turn  is  nourished  by freedom.
          This is  the spirit which needs to be awakened and rekindled
          to restore our Republic.  
               In the beginning of our history,  the republican theory
          was  alive  and  well  in  all branches of government.  Even
          
          decisions by the Supreme Court referred to our government as
          a republic.  Justice Joseph Story summarized it well when he
          wrote in about 1837:  "The founders of the Constitution laid
          the cornerstone of our national republic."
               The  farther  our  government strayed from the specific
          powers we granted, the idea was spread that America is now a
          democracy.    Big  brother  has convinced the people of this
          nation that they are doing what  is best  for us.   They are
          even going to determine what goes into our pizza or how much
          television cable companies can  charge customers.   They are
          showing us  they are  the hallmark  of a great democracy and
          thereby gain support for specific welfare and free cheese. 
               And, they are doing it, getting away with it and  we go
          along with it.  Apparently, it shows our approval.
               The introduction  to our  Constitution shows the objec-
          tives for  our  country  when  it  was  established.   These
          objectives illustrate the spirit and ideals of another great
          document, the Declaration of  Independence.   This introduc-
          tory statement is the antithesis of democracy. 
               Search for  the domestic  tranquility they  sought.  We
          won't find  it at  Kent State  University or  at hundreds of
          other oppressive  situations which occur throughout our land
          each month.  Look  at the  wanton stealing  by the  IRS with
          their audits and seizure of property.  Is this promoting the
          general welfare?  Our  elected and  appointed officials have
          decided power and might are now a right.  The people and the
          Constitution be damned!  
               Dr.  Benjamin  Franklin,   on   signing   the  proposed
          document,  said  any  government  could turn into despotism.
          This would happen when the people  became so  corrupted they
          would be incapable of any other.  (House Document No.398)
               We are  almost at  that stage today.  Are the people so
          corrupted  we  are  incapable  of  anything  but  a despotic
          government?   Despotism is an absolute power or influence of
          any kind. 
               Americans  are  not  so  corrupted  that  today  we are
          incapable of  receiving anything  but a despotic government.
          There is a problem however.  We have  lost the  true purpose
          of our  republic.   This has been intentional on the part of
          some  people  in  our  government.    We  must  reverse this
          tendency and wake Americans to the pitfalls of democracy and
          to their birthright of our republic.
               If we do not reverse this, we will lose our republic by
          default!   The road  to slavery is devious and slippery.  If
          we are not watchful, we could wake some  morning to  find we
          are now  called the  Sovereign State  of the United Nations.
          Are we already receiving our mental  conditioning on  TV for
          that possibility?   Conditioning  to become part of the 'New
          World Order'?
               The principles and ideals  established in  the preamble
          were to  be for  us and  for our posterity.  Posterity means
          all future generations.    What  will  it  be  like  for our
          children  or  grandchildren  should  we  allow  this idea to
          perpetuate?  Will the distress and  conflict of  a democracy
          
          continue and increase?  One of our duties as a citizen is to
          make certain our republican form of government continues.  
               For evil to continue, good men  and women  only need to
          do nothing.  People don't want to get involved.  People will
          be forcibly involved someday  when they  have to  line up to
          have their number tattooed on their arm.
               Slaves or a free people?  The choice is ours!

                     
                      SUPPORT THE SHAREWARE CONCEPT . . 

                        REGISTER WITH THE AUTHOR . . 

                              ONLY $19.95
