�   \RBBS\DL\OUTLINE1.TXT                                                                                                     

  AN ILLUMINATI OUTLINE OF HISTORY


Alpha and Omega -- Immanentizing of the Eschaton.
20,000,000 BC -- Recent Epoch of geeology begins; Ice Age ends;
  human beings spread to all parts of the world.
30,000 -- First Illuminatus, Gruad, rules in Atlantis.
20,000 -- Mythical Lloigor inhabit continent of Mu.
10,000 -- Approximate beginning of agriculture.  Estimated date of
  inscriptions on stone disks by the Dropa tribe, a diminuative
  people of the Bayan-Kara-Ula Mountains on the border of China and
  Tibet; disks describe how the tribe came to earth in flying
  machines; ancient Dropa graves contain human remains with huge
  heads and small bodies.  Earliest estimated date of carving of the
  Crystal Skull found at Lubaantun in the Yucatan.  Hyborian Age in
  Europe.
9,000 to 10,000 -- Date of Plato's Atlantis.
6,000 -- Picture writing develops.
5,000 -- First alphabet begins to develop.
4,000 -- Approximate date of discovery of metals, beginning of
  cities, constellations of stars first recorded.  Egyptians begin
  placing small pieces of crystal on the forehead of deceased prior
  to mummification.
3,000 -- Approximate date of building of the Sphinx and Great
  Pyramid at Giza and other pyramids elsewhere in Egypt.  Indus
  Valley civilization develops complex government, writing and well
  planned cities.  Minoan civilization flourishes in Crete.
  Earliest parts of the Bible written.  Beginning date of Olmec
  calendar from Central America: 3113 BC.  Trephination (cutting a
  hole in the skull) practiced by people all over the world.
  2,500 -- Sarmoung Brotherhood of Babylonia flourish according to
  Gurdjieff.
2,100 -- Egyptians record star configurations on which the 24 hour
  day is based.
2,000 -- Stonehenge and other stone circles built in England.
1,800 -- Huge Silbury Mound constructed near Stonehenge.
1,700 -- Babylonian Enuma Anu Enlil, early roots of astrology
  based on celestial phenomena.
1,500 -- Approximate date of the destruction of Thera, on which
  Atlantis legends are probably based.  Early references to
  Mithraism on cuneform astronomical tests.  Quadrants of the moon
  recorded in China.
1,360 -- Akhenaton's monotheistic sun worship in Egypt.
1,344 -- Tutankhamun, Akhenaton's successor who revived
  polytheism, buried at Thebes; curse reading "Death comes on swift
  wings to he who opens this tomb," written on tomb doorway.
1,300 -- Approximate date "I Ching" written in China.
1,184 -- End of the Trojan War, Illium falls to the Greeks.
1,000 to 2,000 -- Legendary Thule civilization in the Gobi region
  destroyed by a catastrophe, "possibly of an atomic nature,"
  survivors migrating to Agarthi and Schamballah.
1,000 -- Huge Sacrificial Table built at Mystery Hill near North
  Salem, New Hampshire.
950 -- Approximate date of building of Solomon's Temple in
  Jerusalem, traditional origin of the Masonic fraternity; alleged
  assassination of Temple master-mason Hiram for refusing to reveal
  masonic secrets.
900 -- Approximate time settlers from Europe and the Middle East
  established colonies in North America.
800 -- Twenty-two "moon stations" in monthly lunar cycle
  recognized in Babylonia, India and China.
753 -- Legendary founding of Rome by Romulus.
700 -- Jordanian city of Petra is carved out of sandstone by
  unknown culture.
600 -- Approximate beginning of money with first coins in Lydia.
575 -- Nebuchadnezzar completes building Tower of Babel in
  Babylon.
500 to 600 -- Time of Buddha, Lao Tse, Confucius, Zarathustra,
  Orpheus, Pythagoras, Zachariah and Daniel--an Illuminated century.
500 -- Sun-Tse's "Treatise on the Art of War," first intelligence
  manual.
485 -- Execution of Spurius Cassius in Rome.
450 -- Development of the 12 constellations of the zodiac in
  Mesopotamia, recognizing the importance of the plane of the
  elliptic through which the sun, moon and planets move.
440 -- Assassination of Spurius Maelius.
400 -- Druidism in England.  Astrological ideas from Enuma Anu
  Enlil transmitted to India.
390 -- Approximate date Plato's "The Republic" written, featuring
  such Illuminoid images as the Philosopher Kings, the Divided Line
  and the parable of the Cave.
355 -- Plato's "Timaios" and "Kritias," earliest accounts of
  Atlantis.
300 -- Invention of Mayan calendar in Yucatan, based on advanced
  astronomy.  Fabius family of Rome reaches its greatest heights.
275 -- Approximate date Greek poet Aratus makes first sytematic
  record of star constellations in "Phaenomena."
273 to 232 -- Rule of Asoka, king of India who allegedly founded
  the Nine Unknown.
212 -- Archimedes uses burning-glass to set fire to Roman fleet at
  Syracuse, early use of lens as weapon.
133 -- Land reformer Tiberius Gracchus murdered and hundreds of
  his followers killed by followers of powerful Roman patricians;
  death of Scripio Africanus a few years later.
121 -- Gaius Gracchus and 3000 of his followers massacred by
  patricians.
100 -- The Great Teacher of the Essenes.  Essentials of modern
  astrology worked out.
95 -- Approximate date of assassination of Saturninus and Glaucia.
92 -- Assassination of Rutilius Rufus.
91 -- Assassination of Livius Drufus.
73 -- Revolt of gladiators led by Spartacus.
44 -- Assassination of Julius Caesar.
4 -- Birth of Jesus of Nazareth, accompanied by various Illuminoid
  trappings: three early Men-In-Black disguised as the Wise Men;
  strange lights in the sky; miracles such as visits from angels,
  prohpecy and suspension of time are reported.
0 -- Carnation-Painted Eyebrows Society, Copper Horses, Iron Shins
  and other secret societies active in China.
AD 30 -- Assassination of the radical Jesus, allegedly on
  Illuminati orders; more Illuminoid trappings; an eclipse; an
  earthquake; visitorsfrom the sky roll away the stone from the
  sepulcher and liberate the crucified Jesus.
100 -- Hero of Alexandria devises primitive steam-engine.
125 to 150 -- Simon Magus, Menander, Valentinus and others develop
  Gnostic religious doctrines of esoteric knowledge (illumination).
135 -- Approximate date Ptolemy records 1,022 stars in "Almagest";
  also recorded astrological ideas from Enuma Anu Enlil in his
  "Apotelesmatika."
150 -- Roman Mithraism competes with Christianity.  Yellow Turban
  Society subdues northern China, Triad cult formed in opposition.
200 -- First book of the cabala, "Sepher Yetzirah," compiled.
216 to 276 -- Life of Mani, the Illuminator, who founded
  Manicheism, based on ideas from Judaism, Christianity,
  Zoroasterism, Gnosticism, etc.
325 -- Council of Nicaea in which Christian begins to rigidify.
400 -- Estimated date of carving of stone statues found on Easter
  Island.
500 -- Chinese use of gunpowder.
570 to 632 -- Life of Muhammad, founder of Islam.
670 -- Callinicus invents Greek Fire, primitive incendiary bomb.
673 to 735 -- Life of the Venerable Bede, the greatest scholar of
  Saxon England whose "Ecclesiastical History of England" (731)
  contained many occult and unexplained occurances.
700 -- Sufi mysticism begins.
730 -- "Al Azif" written in Damascus by Abdul Alhazred.
772 -- Charlemagne allegedly established Holy Secret Tribunal
  which becomes the Holy Vehm.
850 -- Ismaili and Fatimid missionaries throughout Islamic Empire
  preach revolution against the ruling Sunni order and Abbasid
  state.
900 -- Beginning of the Bogomils of Bulgaria, a Manicheian sect,
  roots of Cathari.
909 -- First Fatimid caliph in Egypt.
920 to 1003 -- Life of Pope Sylvester II who allegedly visited the
  Nine Unknown in India.
950 -- "Al Azif" translated into Greek as "Necronomicon."
1000 -- Approximate founding of Yezidi cult by Sufi Sheikh Adi in
  Iraq.  Abode of Learning active in Cairo.  Spread of Cathari
  Manicheism throughout Europe.  Leif Ericson explores North
  America.
1034 to 1124 -- Life of Hasan-e Sabbah, founder of the Assassins
  of Persia.  Member of the Ismaili sect, Hasan seized fortress of
  Alamut in Daylam in 1090; split with Fatimid dynasty in 1094;
  Assassins flourished for next several centuries.
1050 -- Approximate date of founding of the Order of Hospitallers
 in Jerusalem.
1058 -- Member of the Abode of Learning sect gains temporary
  control of Bagdad.
1092 -- Assassins murder Persian minister Nizam al-Mulk.
1095 -- First Crusade.
1100 -- Approximate date Sufi Gilani founds Arabic school of
  Illuminati, Kadiri Order of Sebil-el-ward, in Bagdad.  Assassins
  infiltrate Thug cult of India.  Bogomil leader Basil burned in
  Constantinople.  Albigensian Cathari sect flourishes near Albi,
  France.  Avengers and Beati Paoli active in Italy.  Joachim of
  Floris founds primitive Christian sect, Illuminated Ones.  Robin
  Hood active in England.
1119 -- Knights Templar founded in Palestine.
1123 -- Abode of Learning suppressed by Turkish Vizier Afdal.
1140 -- Rapid growth of Cathari sect begins.
1149 -- First Cathari bishop established.
1162 to 1227 -- Life of Genghis Khan, conquerer of China and
  Russia, invader of Europe and Islamic Empire, destroyer of
  Assassin power.  Approximate beginnings of the wandering of the
  Gypsies of North India.
1167 -- Cathari council near Toulouse.
1170 -- Assassination of Thomas a Becket.
1171 -- Last Fatimid caliph dies.
1176 -- Peter Waldo founds the Poor Men of Lyons.  Sultan Saladin
  invades Assassin territory, gains truce.
1184 -- Waldenses excommunicated, suppressed.
1200 to 1300 -- House of Wisdom in Cairo, roots of the Afghan
  Roshaniya.  Origin of the Mafia in Sicily.
1208 -- Albigensian Crusade begins suppression of Cathari heresy.
1212 -- The Children's Crusade.  Genghis Khan invades China.
1233 -- Founding of the Inquisition to suppress Cathari and other
  heresies.
1235 to 1315 -- Life of Dr. Illuminatus, Ramon Llull (Raymond
  Lully) in Spain.
1241 -- Mongols invade Europe through wise use of intelligence
  information and strategy, introduce gunpowder from Asia.
1244 -- Massacre of Cathari at Montsegur, France.
1250s -- Approximate beginning of Holy Vehm in Westphalia.
  Approximate time of Hulagu Khan's defeat of the Assassins.
  1254 to 1324 (?) -- Life of Marco Polo, early European traveler in
  China, Persia.
1258 -- Hulagu Khan destroys Bagdad; Mongols destroy Mesopotamia,
  the mother of civilization.
1260 -- Mongol invasion of Islamic Empire turned back.
1270s -- Cathari hierarchy fades.
1275 -- Assembly of traveling mason guilds in Frankfort. "Zohar,"
  second book of the cabala, compiled by Moses de Leon in Spain.
1280 -- Roger Bacon, deviser of early eyeglasses, independently
  invents gunpowder.
1291 -- Hospitallers retreat to Cyprus.
1300 -- White Lotus Society founded in China.  Inquisition begins
  suppression of witches and other pagan groups.
1307 -- Philip IV of France suppresses Knights Templar for
  witchcraft and heresies; de Molay imprisoned in the Temple in
  Paris.
1308 -- Assassination of Holy Roman Emperor Albert I.
1309 -- Hospitallers acquire the isle of Rhodes.
1313 -- Knights Templar dissolved by papal decree.
1314 -- De Molay and others burned in Paris.
1327 -- Assassination of King Edward II in England.
1329 -- First appearance of the Tarot in Germany.
1360 -- Approximate date of the earliest known Satanic cults;
  black masses celebrated in France.
1369 -- Timurlane becomes Great Khan.
1375 -- Another assembly of traveling mason guilds in Frankfort.
1379 to 1482 -- Alleged life of Christian Rosenkreuz, fictitious
  founder of Rosicrucianism.
1390 -- Gypsies begin to appear in Europe.
1400s -- Cathari sect dies out.  Concave lenses developed.
1404 -- King Robert revises code of Holy Vehm.
1410 -- Secret society formed in Italy which eventually joins with
  Rosicrucianism.
1437 -- Assassination of King James I of Scotland.
1456 -- Gutenberg Bible begins modern printing.
1458 -- Abramelin's "Book of Sacred Magic" translated from Hebrew
  to french according to followers of the cult of the Guardian
  Angel.
1471 -- Assassination of King Henry VI of England.
1472 -- University of Ingolstadt founded.  Fernando Poo discovers
  Fernando Poo.
1483 -- Assassination of King Edward V of England.
1492 -- Rodrigo Borgia, head of the powerful Borgia family,
  becomes Pope Alexander VI.  Columbus sails the ocean blue.
1493 to 1541 -- Life of Paracelsus, possible founder of
  Roscrucianism; discover of zinc around 1530; model of the Faust
  legend.
1500 -- Approximate date of Roshaiya, Illuminated Ones, in
  Afganistan.  Beginning of Alumbrados in Spain and Charcoal-
  Burners in Scotland.  Cesare Borgia has his brother-in-law
  assassinated.
1502 -- Cesare Borgia arrests and executes enemies who have
  conspired against him.
1503 to 1566 -- Life of Nostradamus, visionary prophet.
1507 -- Fra Dolcino's version of Joachim's Illuminism suppressed
  by the Bishop of Vercueil.
1510 -- Beginning of systematic importation of African slaves into
 the West Indies.
1513 -- Machiavelli's "The Prince" published.
1519 -- Spanish conquest of Mexico, enslavement of Amerindians.
1522 -- Hospitallers lose Rhodes to the Turks.
1530 -- Hospitallers given Isle of Malta by Charles V, become
  Knights of Malta.
1537 -- Assassination of Alessandro de Medici, Duke of Florence.
1568 -- First Inquisition edict against the Alumbrados.
1574 -- Second edict against Alumbrados.
1575 -- Approximate date of founding of British Intelligence
  services.
1575 to 1624 -- Life of Jakob Bohme, visionary mystic, illuminated
  one.
1584 -- Assassination of William I of Orange in England.
1587 -- English colony established at Roanoke Island, Virginia; no
  trace of the "lost colony" was found when supply ships returned
  three years later.
1589 -- Assassination of King Henry III of France.
1590 -- Janssen makes first compound microscope in Europe.
1597 -- Anonymous alchemist seeks to start Rosicrucian-like
  society in Europe.
1605 -- Rosicrucian constitution published.
1607 -- Italian secrect society headed by Count Bernard of Germany
  merges with Rosicrucianism.  First permanent English settlement in
  America, Jamestown, Virgina.
1608 -- Apprentice to Dutch spectacle-maker Lippershey discovers
  principle of focusing lenses; Lippershey builds first telescope.
1609 -- Galileo independently builds telescope, begins study of
  astonomy.  Spanish settlement at Santa Fe, New Mexico, founded.
1610 -- Assassination of King Henty IV of France.
1614 -- "Fama Fraternitatis" published, fictional story of
  Rosenkreuz by Johann Valentin Andrea.
1619 -- First slave ship in America, Jamestown, Virginia.
1620 -- Plymouth Colony, second English settlement, arrives on
  Mayflower.
1622 -- Posters appear in Paris warning that the Rosicrucians are
  "amongst you...visibly and invisibly."
1623 -- Final papal edict against Alumbrados; Guerinets appear in
  France.  First submarine built by Cornelius van Drebbel in
  England.
1638 -- Milton meets Galileo.
1640 -- Beginning of subliminal persuasion when Rembrandt imbeds
  the word "sex" in a painting.
1642 -- Civil War in England between King Charles and Parliament.
1646 -- Earliest known Masonic Lodge to allow non-professional or
  "free" masons, in Warrington, England.
1647 -- Alleged correspondence between Cromwell and Ebeneezer
  Pratt plotting the overthrow of King Charles.
1649 -- King Charles convicted and beheaded by Parliament.
1654 -- Illuminated Guerinets come to public notice in France.
1667 -- Milton's "Paradise Lost" published.
1675 -- Leeuwenhoek discovers "animalcules" through the
  microscope.
1676 -- Sperm discovered by Leeuwenhoek's student Ham.
1680 -- Madame Le Voisin, innovator of modern Satanism, executed
  in Paris.
1682 -- Tamanend, sachem and chief of the Lenni-Lenape tribe,
  welcomes William Penn to America, traditionally considered the
  beginning of the Tammany Society.
1689 -- William III of Orange becomes king of England, allegedly
  through the plotting of the Illuminati.
1694 -- Bank of England founded.
1700 -- Quietism of Fenelon and others.
1701 -- Earliest record of "operative" or professional Masonic
  Lodge in Alnwick, England.
1702 -- First daily newspaper in England.
1717 -- Founding of modern Freemasonry with the Grand Lodge of
  London by Desaguliers.  Voltaire imprisoned in the Bastille.
1721 -- British King George I cracks down on the flourishing Hell
  Fire Clubs, popular Satanistic cults.
1723 -- Anderson's "Constitutions of the Freemasons" published.
  "Ebrietatis Enconium" and other early anti-Masonic works
  published.
1724 -- Publication of the anti-Masonic "Grand Mysteries of the
  Freemasons Discovered."
1731 -- Benjamin Franklin initiated into Freemasonry.
1734 -- Franklin elected Grand Master of Pennsylvania.
1736 -- Death of the last leader of the Afghan Illuminated Ones.
1749 -- Rousseau's spontaneous "enlightenment" launches the
  Romantic Movement.
1750 -- Hell Fire Clubs continue to flourish in Dublin and London.
  Fictional alchemist Joseph Curwen writes letter stating "I laste
  Nighte strucke on ye Wordes that bringe up Yooge-Sothothe,"
  perhaps the real power behind the Illuminati.
1754 -- Six year old Adam Weishaupt is orphaned and goes to live
  with the Jesuits.
1757 -- First year of Swedenborg's "New Era."
1759 -- Voltaire's "Candide" published.
1760 -- St. Germain founds chemical dye factory in Holland, fore-
  runner of I.G. Farben; disappears with 100,000 guilders.  Franklin
  invents bifocals.
1761 -- St. Germain discovered living in Russia.  Chinese Emporer
  issues edict against secret societies.
1762 -- Illumines of France founded.  Sandwich invented.
1763 -- Swedenborg's "Doctrine of Life for the New Jerusalem"
  published.
1764 -- Voltaire's "Philosophical Dictionary" published; he begins
  a prodigious attack on dogmas of church and state.
1765 -- British Stamp Act imposed to help pay for the French and
  Indian War debt.  Sons of Liberty clubs formed to resist the tax.
1767 -- Townshend Revenue Act, another British tax on the
  colonies.  Kunta Kinte kidnapped into American slavery.
1768 -- Virginia's legislature dissolved for its opposition to the
  Townshend Act.  Weishaupt graduates from the University of
  Ingolstadt, becomes tutor and catechist.  Macfarguhar, Ball and
  Smelie begin compiling the "Encyclopaedia Britannica."  Mesmer
  commissions 12 year old Mozart's first opera, "Bastien and
  Bastienne."
1770 -- Boston Massacre: British troops fire into a crowd.
  Townshend Act repealed.
1771 -- "Encyclopaedia Britannica" published.
1772 -- Weishaupt becomes professor at University of Ingolstadt.
1773 -- British Tea Tax on colonies.  Boston Tea Party in protest.
  Weishaupt marries.  Alleged meeting of Meyer Rothschild and others
  to plan a world revolution.  Suppression of the Jesuits.
  Franklin's "Rule by Which a Great Empire May Be Reduced to a Small
  One" published.
1774 -- Britain's "Intolerable Acts" designed to punish rebellious
  colonies.  First Continental Congress.  Washington begins training
  troops.  Louis XVI becomes king of France.  Casanova becomes
  secret agent for the Inquisitors of Venice.  Catherine II shuts
  down satiric journals in Russia.  Jefferson's "Summary View of the
  Rights of British Americans" published.
1775 -- Second Continental Congress authorizes naval warships,
  sets up secret committee to procure weapons, names Washington
  commander-in-chief of the new American Army.  George III proclaims
  America in open rebellion.  Initial battles of the Revolutionary
  War: Lexington, Bunker Hill, Toconderoga.  Bushnell's first
  experimental submarine and torpedo tested.  Prince Hall lodges
  (for blacks) chartered by Grand Lodge of London, rejected by
  American lodges.
1776 -- Illuminati founded by Weishaupt.  American Declaration of
  Independence, written by Jefferson, adopted by Continental
  Congress.  Battles of Long Island, White Plains and Trenton.
  Nathan Hale executed as spy by British.  Franklin becomes
  ambassador to France, is affiliated with French Masonic lodges.
  Opening of Freemasons' Hall, permanent headquarters of English
  Masonry.  Cagliostro initiated into Masonry.  Saigon captured by
  Tay Son brothers.  Aaron Burr serves as assistant to Benedict
  Arnold.  Thomas Paine's "Common Sense" and "The Crisis" widely
  read.  Adam Smith's "Wealth of Nations" published.
1777 -- Weishaupt joins Munich Lodge of the Order of Good Council.
  Articles of Confederation adopted by Continental Congress.
  Battles of Bennington, Brandywine, Germantown, Princeton and
  Saratoga.  Washington has his mystical vision of the future of the
  United States while at Valley Forge.  War of Bavarian Secession
  begins.
1778 -- France recognizes American independence, signs treaty and
  provides aid.  Franklin assists in initiation of Voltaire into
  Masonic Lodge of Paris.  Masonic Convention in Lyons organizes
  Knights of Benficience.
1779 -- John Paul Jones says "Damn the torpedos!"  Benedict Arnold
  becomes a traitor and spy for the British.  War of Bavarian
  Secession ends.
1780 -- John Andre, British agent, captured with secret documents
  from Arnold; Arnold escapes to join British; Andre hanged as spy.
  Weishaupt's wife dies.  Illuminati begins rapid growth.  First use
  of the title Odd Fellows.  Order of the Brotherhood of Asia,
  Rosicrucian off-shoot, founded.
1781 -- Battle of Guilford Court House, surrended of Cornwallis at
  Yorktown.  John Hanson becomes first President of the United
  States in Congress Assembled.  Weishaupt seeks abortion for his
  sister-in-law while awaiting dispensation to marry her.  United
  Masonic Lodges of Hamburg headed by Fraximus, a secret
  Rosicrucian.  Kant's "Critique of Pure Reason" published.
1782 -- British cabinet agrees to recognize American independence,
  preliminary agreement signed in Paris.  Hanson commissions the
  "Eye in the Pyramid" Great Seal, finishes term; Elias Boudinot
  elected second President of Congress Assembled.  Illuminati
  dominate European Masonry.  Casanova retires as secret agent.
1783 -- Treaty signed between America and England.  Washington
  disbands army, resigns.  Hanson dies.  Thomas Mifflin third
  President of Congress Assembled.  Ex-Illuminati Utschneider sends
  letter denouncing the Order to monarch of Bavaria.  Rite of
  Swedenborg founded by Marquis de Throne.  Eclectic Rite founded by
  Baron Knigge in Frankfort.  Webster's "American Spelling Book"
  published.
1784 -- Treaty with England ratified by Congress.  Richard Henry
  Lee fourth President of Congress Assembled.  Bavarian Monarch Carl
  Theodore outlaws secret societies.  Cagliostro moves to Lyons from
  Bordeaux to found the Mother Lodge of Egyptian Masonry.  Royal
  Commission in Paris, including Franklin and Guillotine as members,
 investigates Mesmerism and returns a negative report.
1785 -- Weishaupt flees to Gotha; new edict outlaws Illuminati;
  High-ranking Illuminatus Lanz killed by lightning and Illuminati
  papers found on body by police.  French "Diamond Necklace" affair.
  Napoleon graduates military school.  Franklin returns to America;
  Jefferson becomes French ambassador.  Rosicrucian Order suppressed
  in Austria.  Anonymous pamphlet appears in Germany revealing
  secrets of ancient Egyptian ceremonies.
1786 -- Wisdom Lodge founded in Virginia.  Secret congress in
  Frankfort where Louis XVI and Gustavus III of Sweden condemned to
  die by Illuminati.  Italian Illuminatus Buonarroti's library of
  Masonic and subversive books confiscated by state authorities.
  Nathaniel Gorham fifth President of Congress Assembled.  Napoleon
  writes pamphlete defending Rousseau.
1787 -- German authorities publish letter by Weishaupt admitting
  he sought abortion for his sister-in-law; Weishaupt replies,
  blaming "extenuating circumstances."  German Union (extension of
  outlawed Bavarian Illuminati) founded by Bahrdt.  Washington
  elected President of Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia;
  new constitution adopted by the convention.  Arthur St. Clair
  sixth President of Congress Assembled.  Jefferson meets secretly
  in Paris with Brazilian rebel to discuss American aid to
  revolution in Brazil.  Shay's Rebellion in Massachusetts to
  protest unfair taxes.  Goethe visits Cagliostro's family in
  Palermo.  Swedenborgian Church founded in London.  Society for the
  Abolition of the African Slave-Trade founded in London.
1788 -- American Constitution ratified by the states.  Individual
   American states begin to outlaw slavery.  Cyrus Griffen seventh
  President of Congress Assembled.  Paine visits London and Paris.
  "The Federalist" essays published by Hamilton, Madison and Jay.
1789 -- Washington elected President of the United States; first
  Congress under new Constitution.  Jefferson returns to U.S. to
  become first Secretary of State; Hamilton becomes first Secretary
  of the Treasury.  French Revolution begins.
  1790 -- Rebellion and massacre throughout France.  Cagliostro
  arrested by Inquisition of Rome.  Bavarian edict against Reading
  Societies.  Blake's "Marriage of Heaven and Hell" published.
1791 -- Napoleon joins the Jocobin Club.  First Bank of the United
  States chartered.  Burr begins converting Tammany Society into a
  political machine.  The anonymous "Vie de Joseph Balsamo" (Joseph
  Basalmo was Cagliostro's name before he joined the Masons), first
  recorded link of the Illuminati and the French Revolution, appears
  in several European countries.  Mozart's "The Magic Flute,"
  containing Masonic elements, performed.
1792 -- Washington re-elected.  War between France and Austria.
  Louis XVI imprisoned in the Templars Temple tower.  Massacres of
  September, in which priests, bishops and others are killed.
  Elections for the National Convention, a triumph for Robespierre
  and his followers.  France declared a Republic.  First
  Swedenborgian church in America.  Catherine II outlaws Masonry in
  Russia.  "Life of Joseph Balsamo" translated into English in
  Dublin.  Assassination of Gustav III at the Stockholm opera.
1793 -- Year One of the French Republic; the year of the Terror,
  Louis XVI found guilty of conspiracy, condemned to be executed.
  French government kills thousands of its citizens.  France
  declares war on England and the Dutch United Provinces; war breaks
  out with Spain and Austria; Russia and Prussia begin partition of
  Poland.  French food riots.
1794 -- Year Two; France passes laws distributing confiscated
  property to the poor, leads victorious battle against Austrians.
  Would-be assassin of Robespierre fires on Collot d'Herbois
  instead; the next day a young girl arrested as suspected assassin;
  she and 40 others sent to guillotine. Other attempts of
  Robespierre's life; his enemies accuse him of attempting to have
  himself declared divine by Catherine Theot, an old woman who
  preached a mystery religion; Robespierre guillotined.  Monroe
  becomes minister to France.  Whiskey rebellion in Pennsylvania to
  protest liquor taxes.
1795 -- France makes peace with Prussia and Spain, invades
  Holland.  Napoleon suppresses revolt in Paris and goes to Italy as
  Commander-in-Chief.  Yazoo land fraud: bribed Georgia legislators
  sell Mississippi.
1796 -- Adams elected President.  Paine publishes letter critical
  of Washington.
1798 -- Illuminati scare in New England.  Knights of Malta lose
  their island to Napoleon.
1800 -- Death of Thomas Waley, one of the last Hell Fire Club
  leaders.  Napoleon comes to power, allegedly through Illuminati
  manipulation.
1805 to 1881 -- Life of Auguste Blanqui, French socialist, founder
  of numerous secret societies modeled after Buonarroti.
1815 -- Napoleon's Waterloo.  Secret societies which eventually
  become the Decembrist Movement formed in Russian Masonic lodges.
1817 -- Suppression of the Lodge of Jupiter the Thunderer begins.
  Irish immigrants force entry into Tammany Society, changing its
  direction.
1818 -- Mar Shelley's "Frankenstein" published.
1819 -- American Independent Order of Odd Fellows founded.
  Founding of National Freemasonry, the most important of several
  Polish secret societies devoted to ousting the Russians from
  Poland.  Liberation of Columbia by Bolivar.
1822 -- Russian government suppresses Masonry.  Equador liberated
  by Bolivar.
1825 -- Decembrist movement suppressed in Russia after brief
  uprising.  Bolivar liberates Bolivia.  Founding of Vienna bank by
  Solmon Rothschild and Naples bank by Carl Rothschild.
1828 -- Tammany Society backs Andrew Jackson for President.  Anti-
  Masonic Party founded, first third-party in America.  Attempted
  assassination of Bolivar.
1829 -- Alleged Illuminati meeting in New York decides to unite
  Atheists and Nihilists into Communist movement.
1830 -- Anti-Masonic conventions in Massachusetts and Vermont find
  evidence linking Masonry with Illuminism.  Book of Mormon
  published.  Weishaupt and Bolivar die.
1831 -- Anti-Masonic Party runs Wirt for President, assuring that
  Mason Andrew Jackson would be re-elected.  Poe dismissed from West
  Point.
1833 -- Jackson orders U.S. funds withdrawn from Bank of the
  United States, effectively killing the institution.
1835 -- The socialist League of the Just founded in Paris, later
  becoming the Marxist Communist League.  Attempted assassination of
  Jackson with two single shot pistols, both of which jammed.
  Revolver invented.
1844 -- Morse builds first practical telegraph.  Bahai religion
  begins when the Bab proclaims his mission in Persia.
1848 -- Fall of monarchy in France.  Republic established in Rome.
  Abdication of Ferdinand I in Austria.  Revolts in Denmark,
  Ireland, Lombardy, Schleswig-Holstein and Venice.  Germany briefly
  united in a parliament at Frankfort; unity destroyed by the King
  of Prussia.  Marx and Engles publish the "Communist Manifesto"
  (allegedly commissioned by the Illuminati) and travel in France
  and Germany encouraging discontent with the Establishment.
  Woman's Suffrage Movement gets underway in Seneca Falls, New York.
  Spiritualism born in Wayne County, New York, when the teenaged Fox
  sisters communicate with poltergeists.  Fortean tidbits: moon
  turns "blood-red" during total eclipse; a great comet fails to
  return at the time predicted; visions and "phantom soldiers" seen
  in the skies of France and Scotland; Captain M'Quahae of H.M.S.
  Daedalus reports seeing a "huge, unknown creature" in the ocean.
  Gold discovered in California.
1849 to 1936 -- Life of Sir Basil Zaharoff, "mystery man of
  Europe," who made a fortune as an armaments dealer and financier,
  selling weapons to both sides in World War I and other conflicts.
1852 -- Benjamin becomes first professed Jew elected to Congress.
1859 -- Oil wells invented.  Darwin's "Origin of Species"
  published.
1860 -- Lincoln elected.  Electric storage battery invented.
1860s -- Attempts to suppress the Mafia in Sicily are
  unsuccessful.
1861 -- Confederate states secede; elect Jefferson Davis
  president; Benjamin appointed Confederate Attorney General, later
  Secretary of War.  American Civil War begins.  Emancipation of
  serfs in Russia.  Jacolliot writes about the Nine Unknown in
  Calcutta.  Gatling gun patented.
1862 -- Benjamin appointed Confederate Secretary of State.
1863 -- Rockfeller builds his first refinery.
1865 -- Assassination of Lincoln; Andrew Johnson becomes
  president; "Booth" killed; coded message found among his effects;
  the code key later found in possession of Benjamin, alleged
  Rothschild agent.  Civil War ends.  Thirteenth amendment abolishes
  slavery.
1866 -- Ku Klux Klan founded as a social club in Pulaski,
  Tennessee.  Benjamin flees to England.  Death of Phineas Quimby,
  magnetic healer, founder of Free Thought movement, teacher of Mary
  Baker Eddy.
1867 -- Ku Klux Klan reorganized along political and racial lines
  near Nashville, Tennessee.
1868 -- Assassination of Thomas D'Arcy McGee, first Canadian
  political assassination.
1869 -- St. Germain allegedly completes 85 years in the Himalayas
  after his "death."  Mendeleev composes first periodic table of the
  elements in Russia.  U.S. transcontinental railroad completed.
1870 -- Standard Oil Company incorporated.
1875 -- "Whiskey Ring" conspiracy of distillery owners revealed.
  Madam Blavatsky founds Theosophy Society.  Mary Baker Eddy's
  "Science and Health" published.
1875 to 1947 -- Life of Aleister Crowley, the Great Beast, Golden
  Dawn leader and occult figure.
1876 -- Disraeli again warns about dangers of secret societies.
  Battle of the Little Big Horn.  Bell patents telephone.  Otto
  builds four-cycle gasoline engine.
1877 -- First of seven wills in which Cecil Rhodes leaves his
  money to establish a secret society to expand British rule
  throughout the world.
1878 to 1945 -- Life of Edgar Cayce, visionary, trance-channeler
  who spoke of reincarnation, Egyptian mysteries, and Atlantis.
1881 -- Garfield assassinated.  Czar Alexander II assassinated by
   secret society.  Disraeli publishes "Lothair," a novel about
  secret societies and European politics.
1884 -- Fabian Society founded in London by Sidney and Beatrice
  Webb and others.
1885 -- First practical horseless carriage built by Daimler.
1887 -- Golden Dawn founded in London by Mathers and others.
  Mitchelson-Morley experiement disproving ether theory.
1888 -- Unsolved murders of London prostitutes by "Jack the
  Ripper," suspected of being one of those implicated in the
  Cleveland Street Affair involving high-society Victorians and
  their patronage of a brothel staffed by messenger boys.
1889 -- Second Communist International organized.
1890 -- Biologist Yersin visits India, purportedly to recieve
  plague and cholera serum from the Nine Unknown.  Wounded Knee
  massacre.
1891 -- Rhodes gains control of 90% of world's diamond supply.
  The Round Tables, a secret society allegedly funded by Rhodes and
  the Rothschilds to gain financial and political power, founded in
  the U.S., Canada, Australia, India, South Africa and New Zealand.
  Rockefeller grant founds University of Chicago.  Nikola Tesla
  invents Tesla coil, becomes U.S. citizen.
1892 -- Rockefeller trust transferred to holding company: Standard
  Oil of New Jersey.
1893 -- Assassination of Chicago Mayor Harrison.
1894 -- Assassination of President Carnot of France.
1896 -- Maconi's patent No. 7777 for radio.  First "flap year" for
  UFOs: wave of sightings of unidentified airships in U.S.
1897 -- Assassination of Premier Canovas of Spain.  Zionism
  founded in Basil, Switzerland by Theodore Herzl.
1898 -- Assassination of Empress Elizabeth of Austria.  Pavlov
  begins study of conditioned reflex in dogs.
1899 -- Tesla discovers terrestrial stationary waves which can
  produce electricity; reports receiving signals from another
  planet.  Alleged meeting in England at which the Morgans,
  Rothschilds and Warburgs become affiliated.
1900 -- Assassination of King Umberto I of Italy and Kentucky
  Governor-elect William Goebel.  Tesla suggests alien beings might
  be living "in the very midst of us."  Boxer rebellion in China.
  Approximate date Adolf Lanz founded the Order of New Templars, a
  fore-runner of the Nazi mentality.
1901 -- Assassination of McKinley and Russian Education Minister
  Bogolepov.  Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research
  (Rockefeller University) founded in New York.  First trans-
  Atlantic radio broadcast: Marconi sends the letter S.
1902 -- Assassination of Russian Minister of Interior Sipyagain.
  Paul and Felix Warburg immigrate from Germany to the U.S.
  Rockefeller General Education Board founded.
1903 -- Assassination of Bogdanovich, Governor of Ufa. "Protocols
  of Elders of Zion," alleged plan for Jewish world takeover,
  published in Russian newspaper.
1904 -- Assassination of Russian Premier Vischelev von Plehev.
1905 -- Assassination of Grand Duke Sergius and Idaho Governor
  Steunenberg. Abortive revolution in Russia. Expanded version of
  "Protocols of Zion" published.
1906 -- Assassination of Russian General Dubrassov.
1907 -- Financial panic and depression allegedly caused by J.P.
  Morgan to gain support for the central bank concept.
1908 -- Assassination of King Carl of Prussia and Crown Prince of
  Portugal. FBI founded. Founding of the Armanen Initiates, another
  proro-Nazi secret society.
1910 -- Attempted assassination of Mayor Gaynor of NYC. Secret
  meeting of bankers and politicians at Jekyll Island, Georgia,
  results in Federal Reserve Act.
1911 -- Assassination of Prime Minister Staliapin of Russia by
  police double agent. Standard Oil of New Jersey broken up as
  illegal monopoly.
1912 -- Assassination of Primier Canalegas of Spain. Attempted
  assassination of Teddy Roosevelt. Colonel E.M. House, adviser to
  Woodrow Wilson, publishes "Philip Dru: Administrator," a political
  romance which proposed modern social legislation. Founding of
  Germanen Order, another pre-Nazi secret society.
1913 -- Assassination of George I of Greece. Rockefeller
  Foundation founded.
1914 -- Attempted assassination of Archduke Ferdinand of Austria
  by Masonic agents, followed an hour later by successful
  assassination; in Russia, Rasputin stabbed the same day. World War
  I begins.
1915 -- Sinking of the Lusitania by German submarine; allegedly
  carrying secret munitions for the Allies, the ship supposedly
  sacrificed by British and American authorities to drum up war
  hysteria in U.S. Alfred Wegener proposed theory of continental
  drift, receives ridicule and contempt from his fellow scientists.
  Ku Klux Klan revived.
1916 -- Assassination of Rasputin.

From "The Illuminoids"  c. Neil Wilgus & various sources


�   \RBBS\DL\OUTLINE2.TXT                                                                                                     (Part 2, from Neil Wilgus' THE ILLUMINOIDS and other sources)


1917 -- United States enters World War I. Russian Revolution 
  begins; Cheka, secret police of Bolsheviks, founded.
1918 -- Assassination of Russian Czar Nicholas II and his family. 
  Attempted assassination of Lenin. New Thought lecturer David Van 
  Bush hires H.P. Lovecraft as a ghost writer.
1919 -- Founding of Thule Society in Germany; Hitler recruited. 
  League of Nations founded at Paris Peace Conference. Meeting at 
  the Majestic Hotel, Paris, between Wilsonian intellectuals (House, 
  Dulles and Dulles, etc.) and "like-minded Englishmen" to discuss 
  forming an organization "for the study of international affairs." 
  Royal Institute of International Affairs founded. Freud draws 
  attention to Austrian neurologist Poetzl's experiments with the 
  tachistroscope, an early device for studying subliminal 
  perception. Charles Fort's "The Book of the Damned" published. 
  Hitler joins the German Workers' Party.
1920s -- Assassination of estimated 400 German public figures 
  begins. U.S. entry into League of Nations blocked in Senate. 
  Development of modern advertising techniques emphasizing 
  manipulation rather than information.
1920 -- GWP becomes the National Socialist German Worker's Party.
1921 -- Council on Foreign Relations incorporated; founded by 
  Wilsonians House, Dulles and company upon their return from Paris, 
  with the help of the Round Table Group. Marconi states he believes 
  mysterious V code on pre-WWI radio came from space; Tesla recalls 
  seeing lights, vivid images, when he was a boy. Hitler takes over 
  the NSGWP.
1922 -- Mussolini, alleged British Intelligence agent, comes to 
  power in Italy, begins attempt to eliminate Mafia in Sicily. Cheka 
  reorganized as GPU, Russian secret police. CFR journal "Foreign 
  Affairs" founded. King Tutankhamen's tomb opened in Egypt, thus 
  invoking "King Tut's Curse"; 14 violent deaths in as many years 
  linked to the curse.
1923 -- Assassination of Pancho Villa in Mexico. Founding of 
  Hitler's National-Socialist (Nazi) Party in Germany. International 
  Police (Interpol) founded in Vienna. In the face of the Teapot 
  Dome and other scandals, President Harding visits Alaska and 
  receives a "long ciphered message" which visibly upsets him, 
  causing him to ask what a president could do when friends betrayed 
  him; he died soon after among conflicting rumors about the cause 
  of his death. Fort's "New Lands" published.
1924 -- J. Edgar Hoover takes over FBI. During Mars' closest 
  approach radios around the world went off the air in order to 
  allow interception of any possible messages from space; when 
  translated onto photographic tape, signals received produced 
  crudely drawn faces. Lovecraft ghostwrites for Houdini.
1925 -- Lionel Curtis organizes the Institutes of Pacific 
  Relations in at least ten countries for the Round Table Group.
1926 -- Suicide of synchronicity researcher Paul Krammerer, 
  biologist, freemason.
1927 -- Rise of the CFR due to Rockefeller and other foundation 
  funding. The Crystal Skull discovered in ruins of Lubaantun in 
  British Honduras.
1928 -- Nomination of Catholic Al Smith sparks last spurt of 
  growth for the KKK. Soviet produced film shows conditioned reflex 
  experiments on humans.
1929 -- CFR moves to Harold Pratt Building on 68th Street. Great 
  Depression begins. Quisling's "About the Matter That Inhabited 
  Worlds Outside Ours and the Significance Caused by It to Our 
  Philosophy of Life" published.
1930 -- Pavlov begins applying knowledge of conditioned reflex to 
  human psychosis.
1930s -- Mafia becomes integral part of the U.S. organized crime. 
  Continuing political assassinations accompany Nazi rise to power.
1931 -- Fort's "Lo!" published.
1932 -- Fort dies after publishing his last book, "Wild Talents."
1933 -- Attempted assassination of Franklin Roosevelt; Chicago 
  mayor Cermak killed instead. FDR orders use of Great Seal of the 
  U.S. on reverse side of the dollar bill. Reichstag Fire, set by 
  Nazis, used to suspend civil liberties.
1934 -- Assassination of S.M. Kirov, Soviet leader and Stalin 
  collaborator. Russian GPU renamed NKVD. Beginning of Hitler's 
  Black Order. Unexplained "ghostflier" broadcasts in Sweden.
1935 -- Assassination of Senator Huey Long. First lobotomy 
  performed by Egas Moniz in Lisbon.
1936 -- Beginning of Moscow Purge trials in which numerous 
  communist leaders were brainwashed into false confessions and then 
  executed.
1937 -- Spanish Civil War begins. First of 48 "Lost Colony" stones 
  found in North Carolina; stones supposedly tell the story of lost 
  Roanoke Island colony. Amelia Earhart Putnam, aviator, disappears.
1938 -- Assassination of Leon Sedov, Trotsky's son; first 
  assassination attempt against Trotsky. Nazi invasion of Austria; 
  Interpol exiled -- or taken over by Nazis; German expedition to 
  Antarctica stakes out 600,000 square kilometers, lands near the 
  South Pole. Electroshock treatment discovered. Orson Welles' 
  dramatization of H.G. Wells' "War of the Worlds" scares American 
  radio listeners.
1939 -- Attorney Leon Cooke, friend of Jack Ruby and financial 
  secretary of the union which employed Ruby, killed by union 
  president Jack Martin; union subsequently taken over by Mafia. 
  League of Nations suspended. Germany invades Poland; World War II 
  begins. CFR offers it services to U.S. State Dept. Interpol 
  grouped with Gestapo. Amateur radio astronomer Grote Reber 
  receives dot-dash signal from space. Attempted assassination of 
  Hitler.
1940 -- Assassination of Leon Trotsky in Mexico. British secret 
  police renamed MI-5 and MI-6 for duration of war. Interpol moved 
  to near Berlin., with Reinhard Heydrich in charge. Nazis allegedly 
  begin building Hitler's secret hideout in Antarctica. Roosevelt 
  sends Gen. "Wild Bill" Donovan on info-gathering mission to 
  Europe; Donovan recommends a central intelligence organization. 
  U.S. State Dept. creates Division of Special Research headed by 
  CFR member Pasbolsky.
1941 -- Japan attacks U.S. Fleet at Pearl Harbor, allegedly 
  through the maneuvering of Roosevelt and his advisors to provide 
  an excuse to enter the war. Donovan made head of new Office of 
  Coordinator of Information. "The Books of Charles Fort" published.
1942 -- Assassination of Interpol chief H-ydrtch pn 
  Czechloslavakia. Donovan's OCI evolves into the Office of 
  Strategic Services (OSS).
1943 -- LSD-25 discovered by Swiss chemist Albert Hofmann. Nazi 
  Admiral Doenitz boasts the German submarine fleet has built "in 
  another part of the world a Shangri-La on land, an impregnable 
  fortress." Juan Peron and other pro-Nazi leaders take power in 
  Argentina. Pilots on both sides of the war report seeing "foo-
  fighters," unexplained flying objects, while flying war missions.
1944 -- Attempted assassination of Hitler. Nazis begin sending 
  millions of dollars worth of jewels, paintings and cash to 
  Argentina for safe keeping. Russian NKVD reorganized as MGB. 
  Donovan prepares plan for Roosevelt to establish a central 
  intelligence agency which is pigeonholed, later reconsidered by 
  Truman. American band leader Glenn Miller disappears on unarmed 
  flight over the English Channel.
1945 -- Alleged assassination (suicide) of James Forrestal at 
  Bethesda Hospital Neurological Ward, after his attempt to warn 
  Roosevelt of Illuminati plot. Roosevelt dies, Truman becomes 
  president. Mussolini killed. Hitler allegedly escapes from Berlin 
  after arranging for a fake suicide cover story; Hitler's death 
  announced, Admiral Doenitz takes command; submarines U-530, U-977 
  and others begin secret journey from Norway soon after Quisling 
  allegedly refused Hitler's offer to take him "aboard a submarine 
  to a safe refuge"; two months after Germany surrenders submarines 
  U-530 and U-977 give themselves up in Mar del Plata, Argentina, 
  after allegedly being lost from the submarine convoy taking Hitler 
  and others to their hideout in Antarctica; Nazi leader Martin 
  Bormann escapes without a trace from Berlin after supervising 
  Hitler's "suicide." First atomic bombs dropped. World War II ends. 
  General Gehlen, Head of Nazi Intelligence, captured by U.S. Army 
  and flown to Washington; other Nazi and British agents imported to 
  U.S., along wit` Werner Von Braun and other developers of the V-2 
  rockets. Interpol dissolved -- or reorganized with headquarters in 
  Paris, the story varies. OSS disbanded, its agents moving to 
  military intelligence agencies and the State Dept. CFR allegedly
  takes over State Dept. United Nations founded. "Official beginning 
  of Bermuda Triangle mystery," when Flight 19, made up of five 
  naval bombers, disappears off the coast of Florida; another plane 
  sent to investigate also disappears -- 6 planes and 27 men 
  vanished. An Air Force plane's engines fail over Iwo Jima as foo-
 fighters maneuver around it.
1946 -- Murder of wire service king James Ragen by Syndicate 
  friends of Jack Ruby; indictment dropped following additional 
  murders. John Kennedy and Richard Nixon elected to House of 
  Representatives. Truman's executive order sets up the National 
  Intelligence Authority and Central Intelligence Group. Gehlen 
  returns to Germany to continue intelligence work for U.S. Army. 
  Interpol reorganization meeting held in Brussels. Admiral Byrd 
  allegedly leads Naval "research" expedition to Antarctica to 
  attack Hitler's secret hideout; attempt allegedly fails and Hitler 
  and his "UFO scientists" continue their activities. Waves of 
  unexplained "ghost rockets" seen in Europe, especially 
  Scandanavia.
1947 -- Attempted assassination of Minneapolis Mayor Hubert 
  Humphrey. Partition of India receives "strong impetus from the 
  Round Table Group." National Security Act establishes Dept. of 
  Defense, National Security Council and Central Intelligence 
  Agency. France creates SDECE, similar to CIA. Second UFO flap 
  year; Kenneth Arnold reports flying saucers near Yakima, 
  Washington, and other reports soon follow. Maury Island "hoax": an 
  early Men-In-Black incident three days before the Arnold sighting, 
  in which a "donut-shaped object" dropped slag on a boat near 
  Tacoma, Washington; the next day an MIB visited Harold Dahl, who 
  was piloting the boat, and warned him not to discuss the sighting; 
  the boat's owner, Fred Crisman, was suspected of being a CIA 
  employee and was later called to give secret testimony at the 
  trial of Clay Shaw in New Orleans; pilot Dahl disappeared and 
  UFOlogist Arnold, who investigated the case, reported unexplained 
  failure of his own plane's engine soon after two Air Force 
  investigators were killed taking off from Tacoma's airport.
1948 -- Assassination of Mahatma Gandhi. Attempted assassination 
  of labor leader Walter Reuther. Beginning of Operation Ohio, a CIA 
  program responsible for one hundred European assassinations during 
  the next ten years. Beginning of CIA interest in UFOs as a 
  "security" problem. McCord employed by the FBI. Nixon gains 
  prominence in the Alger Hiss case as member of the House Un-
  American Activities Committee; goes to Miami where he meets Bebe 
  Rebozo and goes yachting with other underworld-connected figures. 
  Martin Bormann reported living in Argentina. New nation of Israel 
  creates Central Institute for Intelligence and Security. World 
  Council of Churches founded in Amsterdam.
1949 -- Report critical of CIA filed and forgotten, unread by 
  Truman; Central Intelligence Act exempts CIA from disclosure laws. 
  E. Howard Hunt becomes CIA agent; Clay Shaw becomes agent for 
  CIA's Domestic Contact Service. The Gehlen Organization 
  transferred to CIA control. U.S. Army begins 20 years of simulated 
  germ warfare attacks against American cities, conducting at least 
  239 open air tests. Interpol granted consultive status by UN. 
  Chaing Kai-shek flees to Formosa; mainland China taken by 
  communist leaders; Social Affairs Dept. and other Chinese secret 
  police created. Trial of Cardinal Mindszenty in Hungary following 
  his brainwashing and confession of conspiracy.
1950 -- Attempted assassination of Truman by Puerto Rican 
  nationalists. Korean War begins. Congress passes McCarran's 
  Internal Security Act setting up program for detention of 
  subversives. Hiss convicted of perjury; Nixon elected to Senate 
  after smear campaign against California opponent. U.S. Army 
  engages in "simulated" germ warfare in San Francisco and the 
  Pentagon. National Council of Churches founded in U.S. CIA 
  organizes the Pacific Corporation, a large holding company which 
  was the first of many CIA "private" enterprises. Alleged CIA plot 
  to introduce UFO contact ideas with "Little Green Men" stories and 
  radio contact "from space." Malcolm X receives visit from an MIB 
  while in prison. "Worlds in Collision" by Immanuel Velikovsky 
  proposes a catastrophic theory of ancient history in which a huge 
  "comet" of matter is ripped out of Jupiter, approaches Earth close 
  enough to cause universal fire/flood legends in primitive folklore 
  and the settles into orbit as a new planet, Venus; Velikovsky 
  receives ridicule and contempt from his fellow scientists, thought
  20 years later Jupiter is generally considered a "cold star" 
  rather than a planet and Velikovsky's prediction of a hot climate 
  on Venus is confirmed. Approximate starting date of building of 
  Mount Weather, secret American government fortress.
1951 -- Assassination of Ali Razmara of Iran, Riad Al-Sulh and 
  Abdullah of Jordan and Ali Knah Liaquat of Pakistan. Army 
  simulated germ warfare project in Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania. 
  Approximate date CBS begins active cooperation with CIA. McCord 
  moves from FBI to CIA. North Korean brainwashing of American 
  prisoners begins. TIME magazine popularizes the term 
  "brainwashing."
1952 -- Eisenhower elected president, Nixon vice-president; 
  Kennedy elected to Senate. Army germ warfare project in Key West, 
  Florida, and Ft. McCellan, Alabama. CIA agent Downey and Fecteau 
  captured while on spy mission in China. Third UFO flap year. First 
  UFO "contact" case: George Adamski meets Venusians in California 
  desert; alleged CIA plot to start UFO scare. UFOlogist George 
  Williamson, one of Adamski's witnesses, claims he also witnessed 
  ham radio operator establish contact with another world.
1953 -- Dr. Frank Olsen commits suicide after having been given a 
  secret dose of LSD by the CIA, under the direction of the 
  mysterious Dr. Sidney Gottlieb. CIA contemplates developing drugs 
  to cause amnesia in retired agents. CIA's Robertson Panel views  
  UFO reports as national security threat. Army germ warfare project 
  in Panama City, Florida. Return of Korean War prisoners, including 
  some who underwent brainwashing. 21 POWs defect. Mau Mau (Hidden 
  Ones) formed in Kenya to overthrow white rule. UFOlogist Albert 
  Bender closes down his International Flying Saucer Bureau after 
  being visited by three MIB.
1954 -- Attempted assassinations of several U.S. Congressmen by 
  Puerto Rican nationalists. First Bilderberger meeting takes place 
  at the Bilderberg Hotel, Oosterbeek, Holland. Condemnation by the 
  U.S. Senate of Joseph McCarthy following his charges of subversion 
  in high places. Hunt involved in CIA overthrow of communist regime 
  in Guatemala, Carlos Castillo-Armas becomes president. Richard 
  Bissell joins the CIA. Army germ warfare project in Point Mugu and 
  Fort Hueneme, California. Russian KGB created to replace earlier 
  secret police. Broadcaster Frank Edwards fired for discussing UFOs 
  on the air. Strange voice "from space" speaks from turned-off 
  radios in midwest U.S. and London, warns against preparations for 
  war.
1955 -- Assassination of Jose Antonio Remon of Panama and Adnan 
  Al-Malki of Syria. Bilderberger meeting in Barbizon, France. Lee 
  Harvey Oswald meets David Ferrie of the New Orleans Civil Air 
  Patrol. Doug Durham joins the Marines. The Office of Naval 
  Research allegedly receives a copy of Morris Jessup's "The Case 
  for the UFOs" with marginal notes in three different hands, 
  supposedly by "Gypsies" knowledgeable in UFOlogy; ONR reprints 
  several hundred copies for internal use; an MIB called "Carlos 
  Allende" is implicated in the affair.
1956 -- Assassination of Anastasio Somoza of Nicaragua. 
  Bilderberger meeting in Frednsborg, Denmark. Clay Shaw's CIA 
  contact allegedly stopped. Oswald joins Marines. Durham receives 
  special CIA training. UFOlogist Gray Barker publishes "They Knew 
  Too Much About Flying Saucers" which reported numerous MIB 
  incidents.
1957 -- Assassination of Carlos Castillo-Armas of Guatemala. 
  Exiled Ukranian politician Lev Rebet assassinated by KGB agent in 
  Munich. Alleged assassination of Joseph McCarthy at Bethesda 
  Hospital Neurological Ward, after warning of Illuminati plot. 
  Bilderberger meetings in St. Simon Island, Georgia, and Fiuggui, 
  Italy. Oswald assigned to base at Atsugi, Japan, where CIA U-2 
  planes were launched; shoots self in elbow. General Edwin Walker 
  commands federal troops sent to enforce racial integration at 
  Little Rock, Arkansas. CIA helps Iran form SAVAK, secret police 
  later accused of assassination Iranian dissidents. Experiments in 
  behavior modification sleep-teaching take place at California 
  penal institution Woodland Road Camp. Fourth UFO flap year. Anti-
  atomic bomb propaganda disseminated by saucer clubs -- another CIA
  plot? Unexplained short wave radio signals received worldwide.
1958 -- Assassination of Abdul Llah, Faisal II and Nuri Al-Said of 
  Iraq. Bilderberger meeting in Buxton, England. Russia launches 
  first space satellites. Unidentified ex-Marine lives in Minsk, 
  USSR, apparently gathering information for the CIA. Oswald on 
  maneuvers in the Philippines involving U-2 flights. Francis Gary  
  Powers released from Air Force and assigned to covert CIA spying. 
  Kerry Thornley and Gregory Hill found Discordianism and publish
  "Principia Discordia, or How I Found Goddess and What I Did To 
  Her When I Found Her"; Thornley joins Marine Corps. John Birch
  Society organized by Robert Welch. Nelson Rockefeller elected
  governor of New York. Ham radio operators pick up a male voice
  claiming to be Nacoma of Jupiter and warning of atomic bomb 
  disaster in English, German, Norweigian and his own unknown 
  language.
1959 -- Assassination of Solomon W.R. Bandaranaike of Ceylon. 
  Exiled Ukranian politician Stephan Bandera assassinated by KGB 
  agent in Munich. Attempted assassination of Senator Bircher of 
  Ohio and Governor Almond of Virginia. Apparent suicide of UFO 
  researcher Morris Jessup who had received communications from 
  "Carlos Allende," one of the MIB and whose book was mysteriously 
  annoted by UFOlogical Gypsies. Bilderberger meeting in Yesilkov, 
  Turkey. Fidel Castro assumes power in Cuba; Cuban Intelligence 
  (DGI) begun. Ruby visits casino owner in Havana. Kerry Thornley 
  first meets fellow Marine Oswald in California; Oswald released 
  from Marines, defects to Russia. Thornley assigned to U-2 base in 
  Atsugi, Japan. Durham discharged from Marines, stationed at CIA 
  base in Guatemala. UFO sighting at CIA headquarters after Naval 
  officer contacts "space people" while in CIA-observed trance. 
  Condon's "The Manchurian Candidate" published.
1960 -- Assassination of Hazza Majali of Jordan. Bilderberger 
  meeting in Burgenstock, Switzerland. Eisenhower authorizes 
  training and arming Cuban exiles, allegedly issues orders for the 
  assassination of Congolese leader Patrice Lumumba. Nixon, CIA 
  agent Bissell and others plan Bay of Pigs invasion, obtain 
  permission to use Guatemala as launching point. Bernard Baker 
  serves as conduit for Bay of Pigs funding. CIA buys Southern Air 
  Transport; contemplates development of "recruitment pills" and 
  other drugs; studies mysterious amnesia of Korean war prisoners 
  moved through Manchuria; contemplates giving truth serum to 
  brainwashed American POWs. CIA spy Powers shot down in U-2 over 
  Russia; summit conference cancelled. Kennedy-Nixon debates; 
  Kennedy elected president. Oswald assigned job in Bellorussian 
  Radio Factory in Minsk, USSR. Thornley discharged from Marines.
  Project Ozma, searching for intelligent signals from another part
  of the universe, receives unexplained signals from space.
1961 -- Assassination of Lumumba of the Congo, Rafael Trujillo 
  Molina of the Dominican Republic and Louis Rivagasore of Nurundi. 
  Attempted assassination of Castro by Hans Tanner. Michael 
  Rockefeller disappears in New Guinea. Bilderberger meeting in 
  Quebec, Canada. Thornley arrives to New Orleans; Slim Brooks gives 
  Thornley "the haircut" on his 23rd birthday; the same day, the
  CIA invasion of Cuba at the Bay of Pigs, launched from Guatemala,
  fails due to poor planning and cancellation of support by Kennedy;
  the CIA, the Mob, Cuban-exiles, right-wingers and Nixonites
  supposedly vow revenge against Kennedy. Kennedy develops
  extracurricular relationship with Judith Campbell, Sam Giancana's
  girlfriend; Giancana and John Roselli enlisted by CIA to attempt
  Castro assassination. George De Mohrenschildt on hiking trip 
  through Guatemala. Brooks introduces Thornley to his
  "brother-in-law," Gary Kirstein, allegedly an undercover E. Howard 
  Hunt; Thornley and "Kirstein" begin nearly three-year relationship 
  of discussing Nazis, mind-control, the status of philosopher-
  kings,  and plans to assassinate Kennedy. Robert Morrow, working  
  with Ruby, Shaw and Ferrie, allegedly smuggle weapons from Greece 
  to Central America for the CIA; also picks up information for CIA 
  from "Harvey" in the Soviet Union. Ferrie, Gordon Novel and two 
  others arrested in burglary of Louisiana arms bunker. Unidentified 
  Marine from Minsk divulges information to CIA agent in Copenhagen. 
  General Walker resigns after criticism of his anti-communist 
  indoctrination of troops. U.S. Military Advisor Group begins 
  defoliation project in Vietnam which eventually covers over 12% of 
  land area. Milgram's Yale experiments demonstrating dangers of 
  obedience to authority. Unexplained transmissions from space 
  monitored by ham radio operators worldwide; Bob Renaud, ham 
  operator, allegedly makes contact with aliens.
1962 -- Suicide of Marilyn Monroe under questionable 
  circumstances. Bilderberger meeting in Saltsjobaden, Sweden. 
  Oswald returns to America with his Russian wife, an alleged KGB 
  agent. Retired General Walker arrested on Attorney Robert 
  Kennedy's orders when Walker became involved in the racial 
  disorders in Oxford, Mississippi; Walker stripped naked and flown 
  to Springfield, Missouri, prison for examination; Walker reported 
  to be incompetent but was later released and ran against John 
  Connally for Governor of Texas. Hunt becomes head of CIA's new 
  Domestic Operations Division. CIA interference in Ecuadorian 
  politics. CIA allegedly pays a Canadian agriculture technician to 
  infect Cuban turkeys with Newcastle disease (though the technician 
  supposedly double-crossed them). Ruby allegedly flies from Mexico 
  City to visit Havana. CIA begins using secret terror teams in 
  Vietnam, roots of Operation Phoenix. Dr. Edgar Schein outlines 
  behavior modification programs for U.S. prisons, based on Korean 
  brainwashing techniques. Cuban missile crisis. De Mohrenschildt, 
  friend of the Kennedys, befriends the Oswalds in Dallas. Durham 
  employed by Des Moines Police Dept. UFOlogist Williamson 
  disappears in South America. Film version of "The Manchurian 
  Candidate" released.


Illuminati History, Part 3
 
From Neil Wilgus' ILLUMINOIDS and other sources
 

1963 -- Assassination of Sylvanus Olympio of Togo, Abdul Karim 
  Kassem of Iraq, Medgar Evers of US, Ngo Dinh Diem of South
  Vietnam and John Kennedy of US; Texas Gov. John Connally 
  wounded, police officer Tippit and Oswald killed.  Attempted 
  assassination of General Walker in Dallas earlier, allegedly by 
  Oswald; Oswald also supposedly threatened to kill ex-Veep Nixon, 
  or was it Veep Johnson? the Warren Commission wasn't sure.  
  Alleged assassination attempt of JFK in Miami but right-winger 
  Milteer spills the beans; another attempt in Chicago also 
  supposedly foiled.  Attempted assassination of Castro in which 
  CIA agent Rorke is killed.  Bilderberger meeting in Cannes, 
  France.  Johnson becomes president; almost immediately reverses 
  JFK's decision to withdraw from Vietnam.  CIA begins weather 
  modification project over Hue, Vietnam.  Equadorian government 
  overthrown.  Profumo scandal in England, involving sex and 
  spying, brings down Conservative government.  Russia sends first 
  woman into space.  Unexplained radio transmission interrupts 
  astronaut Gordon Cooper in unidentified language.  Numerous MIB 
  spotted in Dealy Plaza.
  

Oswald in New Orleans

Oswald's Fair Play for Cuba Committee established at same address 
as ex-FBI man Guy Bannister's private detective office, also used 
for E. Howard Hunt's (allegedly the "brother-in-law" Thornley met 
with several times over period 1961-1963) Cuban Revolutionary 
Council and other anti-Castro fronts; confrontation with Carlos 
Bringuier, another agent for CIA's Domestic Contact Service, in 
front of Shaw's International Trade Mart; Oswald asks Bringuier to 
hit him, pleads guilty when they are arrested, asks to see an FBI 
agent, is released and appears on radio and TV the next day to 
publicize his activities; Oswald allegedly meets Shaw, Ferrie and 
other operatives of the FBI and CIA; Oswald, Shaw and Ferrie 
allegedly attempt to register to vote in rural Clinton, Louisiana, 
attracting attention by arriving in a black Cadillac; Oswald and 
Thornley allegedly meet at nightclub; Thornley thinks it was a 
'look-alike'; Jack Ruby visits New Orleans to obtain "the services 
of a stripper known as 'Jada,' who became his featured performer."
 
 
Oswald in Mexico
 
Although Oswald was allegedly on a bus to Mexico at the time, 
someone calling himself "Harvey Oswald" appeared at the Selective 
Service office in Austin, Texas, to discuss his undesirable 
discharge; the next day Cuban refugee leader Sylvio Odio is 
visited in Dallas by two Latins and "Leon Osward" (whom they 
called "Leopoldo") to discuss violent anti-Castro activities and 
revenge against Kennedy -- though Oswald was supposedly on his way 
to Mexico City; Albert Osborne, who allegedly paid for 1000 Hands 
Off Cuba leaflets which Oswald distributed in New Orleans, 
allegedly rides the same bus with him to Mexico City; Oswald, or 
someone impersonating him, attempts to go to Cuba from Mexico 
City; while Oswald was in Mexico a second Oswald appeared at a 
Dallas rifle range to shoot bull's-eyes, have his scope adjusted 
and talk to people there; Oswald returns to Dallas on bus No. 332, 
or was it No. 340? which had the name "Oswald" added to the 
manifest after the trip.
 

Oswald in Dallas
 
Soon after returning from Mexico Oswald and his family allegedly 
drove to Alice, Texas, to talk with the manager of KPOY -- though 
Oswald didn't drive and the Warren Commission concluded he 
couldn't have been in Alice then; Oswald attends General Walker's 
John Birch meeting lecture and two nights later attends an ACLU 
meeting where he criticizes Walker's alleged racism; someone 
looking like Oswald visits a furniture store in Irving, Texas, 
with his family, looking for a part for a gun; the second Oswald 
visits the Irving Sports Shop to have three holes drilled in a 
rifle, though Oswald's only had two holes and they were drilled 
before he got it; the second Oswald cashes a $189 check at an 
Irving grocery store, buys groceries Oswald was unlikely to buy 
and gets a HAIRCUT accompanied by a teenager who allegedly 
exchanged leftist remarks with him; Oswald II visits the Lord-
Lincoln auto agency to look at cars, test drives one at 70 mph and 
brags about coming into money soon and returning to Russia; Oswald 
II begins visiting Dallas/Irving rifle ranges to demonstrate his 
marksmanship, shooting bull's-eyes and hitting other people's 
targets; Oswald I writes a letter to the Dallas FBI which is 
destroyed soon after the assassination; Oswald I writes to "Mr. 
Hunt" asking to "discuss the matter fully before any steps are 
taken by me or anyone else"; two days before the assassination 
Oswald II creates a scene in a Dallas restaurant where Officer 
J.D. Tippit "glowered" at him; Oswald I allegedly seen at the 
Carousel Club, plotting with Ruby, Tippit and/or Bernard Weissman; 
Oswald I or II allegedly ordered distribution of the anti-Kennedy 
"Wanted for Treason" leaflets in Dallas; Oswald, or was it Billy 
Lovelady? photographed standing in the doorway of the Book 
Depository building at the moment Kennedy was shot; Oswald II 
allegedly seen fleeing from the back of the Book Depository 
immediately after the assassination; Oswald II confronts Tippit, 
Oswald I arrested in the Texas Theatre; Oswald's voice prints show 
he told the truth when he said "I didn't shoot anybody, no sir."

  
Faces in the Crowd
 
Among the several hundred witnesses to the assassination were the 
following: the "umbrella man" who supposedly signaled 
assassination teams to fire by closing his black umbrella; the 
"Babushka Lady," who allegedly was introduced to "Lee Oswald of 
the CIA"  by Jack Ruby and who also filmed the assassination, only 
to have the FBI confiscate the film and never return it; Joseph 
Milteer, the National States Rights Party leader who had disclosed 
the Miami plot against JFK and who had links through the NSRP to 
James Earl Ray's brother Jerry; three tramps who were arrested 
soon after the assassination, two of them allegedly resembling E. 
Howard Hunt and Frank Sturgis, the third possibly being Oswald II; 
Lee Harvey Oswald and George DeMohrenschildt who, so 
DeMohrenschildt told a hospital roommate just before his death, 
were together watching the parade when the shots were fired -- 
Oswald ran and that was the last time DeMohrenschildt supposedly 
saw him.


Some Nagging Doubts
 
Nixon, having attended a convention of Pepsi-Cola executives in 
Dallas, leaves for New York an hour before the assassination and 
was one of the few people who later forgot where he was at the 
time; J. Edgar Hoover also alleged to have been secretly in Dallas 
on the same day.  Texas oilman H.L. Hunt taken into protective 
custody by federal agents after the assassination and kept in 
another city for several days to avoid threats by those who might 
think he was involved. DeMohrenschildt, in Haiti, expresses belief 
Oswald was a patsy and that the FBI killed Kennedy (though later 
DeMohrenschildt claimed to have been the link between H.L Hunt and 
Oswald in a right-wing plot to kill JFK). Ferrie allegedly flies 
to Dallas on evening after assassination but his actual 
whereabouts remain unclear. Ruby, allegedly in hypnotic trance, 
shoots Oswald after an unexplained horn honk signal in the Dallas 
Police building basement. Cuban Bay of Pigs veteran named Ruedelo 
arrives in Madrid, Spain, five days after Kennedy assassination, 
jailed for invalid visa. Murder of Jack Zangetti, Oklahoma motel 
owner who told friends the day after the JFK killing that Ruby 
would kill Oswald and a member of the Sinatra family would be 
kidnapped soon afterward to distract attention from the 
assassination.  Frank Sinatra, Jr., kidnapped, released unharmed.

  

�   \RBBS\DL\OUTLINE4.TXT                                                                                                     Illuminati History, Part 4
 
From Neil Wilgus' ILLUMINOIDS and other sources
 
  1964 -- Assassination of Jigme P. Dorji of Bhutan. Deaths 
  associated with Kennedy assassination: Betty Mooney MacDonald, 
  former Carousel Club stripper who had met Oswald at a party and 
  provided an alibi for Darrell Wayne Garner (who was accused of 
  wounding Tippit-killing witness Warren Reynolds), found hanged 
  in her cell after being arrested for fighting with her roommate; 
  Garner disappears, later found dead; Hank Killam, whose wife 
  Wanda was also a stripper at Ruby's club and who was a friend of 
  John Carter who once lived in Oswald's rooming house, evades 
  police for several months, then found with a slashed throat in 
  Pensacola, Florida; Gary Underhill, former LIFE editor and CIA 
  agent who begged friends to protect him because he knew who 
  killed Kennedy, found shot in left side of head -- ruled suicide 
  even though he was right-handed; Bill Hunter, LONG BEACH PRESS-
  TELEGRAM reporter, who had met with Ruby's roommate George 
  Senator and Ruby's attorney Tom Howard at Ruby's apartment a
   few hours after Oswald's murder, shot to death by a policeman 
  in Long Beach, California, police station, accidentally; Jim 
  Koethe, DALLAS TIMES-HERALD reporter also present at the meeting 
  in Ruby's apartment, killed by karate chop to the throat as he 
  emerged from the shower; Mary Meyer, painter, niece of forester 
  Gifford Pinchot and one of JFK's lovers (who allegedly funneled
  LSD from an unsuspecting Timothy Leary to JFK), shot while 
  taking a walk in Washington, D.C. -- her secret diary 
  confiscated by her CIA friend James Angleton, later allegedly 
  destroyed. Robert Kennedy allegedly stalked in assassination 
  plot during his New York senatorial race by Frank Chavez, 
  associate of Ruby; Puerto Rican Teamster Ramon Ducos and Miguel 
  Cruz who was allegedly arrested with Oswald in New Orleans and 
  who claimed to have killed Kennedy; Chavez later killed by his 
  bodyguard, Miguel Cruz. Durham kills wife, terminated from Des 
  Moines police. Bilderberger meeting in Williamsburg, Virginia. 
  Congress passes the Tonkin Gulf resolution giving LBJ power to 
  make war on Vietnam. Virginia Miller, later known as "Blue 
  Dove," allegedly begins career as "disrupter" in the Amerindian 
  community; later serves as FBI informer on Indian activities. 
  REPORT OF THE WARREN COMMISSION ON THE ASSASSINATION OF 
  PRESIDENT KENNEDY released; Commission finds that Oswald, acting 
  alone, killed JFK.
  1965 -- Assassination of Pierre Ngendandumwe of Burundi, Hassan 
  Ali Mansour of Iran, Malcolm X of US and Mario Mendez Montenegro 
  of Guatemala. On the day Malcolm was killed Pio Ghana de Pinto, 
  who had been working with him to coordinate poor Americans and 
  Third World Africans, was machine-gunned at his home in Africa. 
  Deaths associated with Kennedy assassination: Tom Howard, Ruby's 
  attorney who met with Senator and others after Oswald's death, 
  died of a heart attack after "acting strangely" for two days, no 
  autopsy performed; Rose Cherami, another Carousel stripper who 
  told a psychiatrist Kennedy had to be killed two days before it 
  happened and who said she'd seen Oswald at Ruby's club many 
  times, killed in a hit-and-run car accident near Big Sandy, 
  Texas; Dorothy Kilgallen, columnist and TV panel-show figure who 
  had a private half-hour interview with Ruby and said she was 
  going to break the Kennedy case wide open, found dead in her 
  apartment of an apparent overdose of alcohol and barbiturates; 
  William Whaley, Dallas cab driver who took Oswald from the Book 
  Depository to his rooming house after the assassination, killed 
  in an auto accident -- the first on-duty cabbie death in Dallas 
  since 1937; Karen Bennett Carlin, another Carousel entertainer 
  who reported seeing hate-ad signer Bernard Weissman at Ruby's 
  club and was the last known person to speak to Ruby before he 
  shot Oswald, died of gunshot wounds in the head in Houston. 
  Bilderberger meeting in Lake Como, Italy. Fighting in Vietnam 
  escalates into major war. US Army explores sites in the Middle 
  East for potential locations for nuclear devices intended to set 
  off earthquakes. Early prison behaviour mod program, CASE, 
  begins in Washington, D.C., boys school. Durham involved in 
  various Mafia activities and acts as informer for police, 
  possibly CIA. Fifth UFO flap year. Three Russian scientists 
  report receiving unexplained signals from space. California 
  highway inspector Rex Heflin, who took pictures of UFOs, visited 
  by MIB who took the original photographs and left; NORAD denies 
  they were their men, as claimed. Another ham radio operator, 
  Sidney Padrick, makes contact with UFO aliens.
1966 -- Assassination of Sir Abubakar Balewa of Nigeria, J.T.V. 
  Ironsi Aquiyi of Nigeria and Hendrick F. Verwoerd of South 
  Africa. Attempted assassination of James Meredith in US.
  E. Howard Hunt serves as CIA contact in assassination plot 
  against Castro. Retired naval Lt. William Pitzer, who had 
  photographed the secret JFK autopsy and was beginning a job with 
  a TV station, found dead with a bullet in his head. Bilderberger 
  meeting in Wiesbaden, Germany. CIA begins weather modification 
  experiments over Cuba, later used in an attempt to ruin Castro's 
  sugar cane crop. Army simulated germ warfare project in New York 
  City.
  1967 -- Assassination of American Nazi George Lincoln Rockwell 
  in Virginia. Che Guevara killed in Bolivia after CIA 
  questioning. Deaths associated with Kennedy assassination: Jack 
  Ruby, whose lawyers charged Dallas authorities with neglecting 
  his health, died of cancer while awaiting retrial; David Ferrie, 
  who was to be a key witness in the trial of Clay Shaw, found 
  dead in his locked apartment in New Orleans, ruled suicide 
  though how the ruptured blood vessel which induced his brain 
  hemorrhage could be self-inflicted was unexplained; Eladio del 
  Valle, a friend of Ferrie's who had hired him to fly bombing 
  missions over Cuba, found shot through the heart in a parking 
  lot in Miami, Florida, the same day Ferrie was killed. Dr. Mary 
  Sherman, another friend of Ferrie, shot in New Orleans, her body 
  partially burned by her killer. Bilderberger meeting in 
  Cambridge, England. Beginning of Clay Shaw trial; DA Jim 
  Garrison subpoenas Allen Dulles and ex-CIA employee Gordon Novel 
  to testify; both escape testimony. CIA's Operation Phoenix, 
  which was to assassinate and torture over 40,000 in Vietnam, 
  officially launched. Beginning of CIA's $21 million rain-making 
  program over Indochina which would make 2,600 sorties by 1972. 
  Approximate date La Costa Resort hotel built near San Clemente, 
  California: meeting place of Mob figures, Teamsters, politicians 
  and other big-wigs. Winthrop Rockefeller elected governor of 
  Arkansas. Black Panther party formed. Military takeover of 
  Greece allegedly executed by secret Operation Prometheus. 
  Australian Prime Minister disappears while swimming. Jim 
  Thompson, ex-OSS commando and "Silk King of Thailand," 
  disappears on Easter Sunday; five months later his sister is 
  murdered. Rex Heflin again visited by MIB in connection with his 
  photos of California UFOs; similar MIB incidents in New York and 
  elsewhere; another MIB, Mr. Dixsun, allegedly visits Colorado 
  University UFO researcher Edward Condon and offers to help him 
  contact the space people.
  1968 -- Assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., in Memphis, 
  Tennessee, and Robert Kennedy in Los Angeles, California. Dr. 
  Nicholas Chetta, who performed autopsies on Ferrie and Dr. 
  Sherman, died of an apparent heart attack; Richard Carr, JFK 
  assassination witness about to testify in the Clay Shaw trial, 
  learns police have arrested a man planning to shoot him. 
  Bilderberger meeting in Mont Tremblant, Canada. 
  King assassination: James Earl Ray begins international travels 
  thanks to "Raoul" who sounds very much like his younger brother 
  Jerry Ray; FBI begins search for Ray as lone assassin, ignoring 
  considerable evidence of a conspiracy with Ray as patsy -- 
  including reports of the mysterious "sausage and eggs man" who 
  was seen in the neighborhood of King's motel with a rifle before 
  and after the murder. Following King assassination black leader 
  Ron Karenga meets secretly with California Governor Reagan and 
  later with Los Angeles police chief Thomas Reddin. Spiro Agnew's 
  law-n-order handling of riots following King's assassination 
  brings him to national attention; Agnew allegedly chosen for 
  Nixon's vice-president to obtain CIA and Greek oil and shipping 
  firms' contributions. Robert Kennedy assassination: Sirhan 
  Sirhan, who wounded Kennedy in the shoulder pad, still doesn't 
  remember what happened but perhaps security guard Eugene Cesar, 
  who carried the same caliber gun as Sirhan, does; Kennedy was 
  shot in the back of the head at close range -- Cesar was close 
  behind him, Sirhan several feet in front; a "girl in the polka 
  dot dress," who earlier had been seen with Sirhan, reportedly 
  leaves the scene saying "We've shot him!" Nixon and Agnew 
  elected. Approximate date group called The Kaisers founded -- 
  60 German-Americans allegedly planning to make Nixon a dictator. 
  FBI begins secret Cointelpro campaign against New Left and black 
  radicals. New York police BOSS unit founds local Black Panther 
  party using undercover agents. FBI informer William O'Neal 
  infiltrates Chicago Black Panthers, becomes chief of security, 
  Los Angeles police establish Criminal Conspiracy Section which 
  employs Donald DeFreeze, Louis Tackwood, Ron Karenga, the 
  Steiner brothers and other agents to infiltrate prison reform 
  and black power groups. CIA penetrates the Students for a 
  Democratic Society at Columbia College; National Caucus of Labor 
  Committees (NCLC) formed within the SDS. Congress creates LEAA 
  to fund state and local police programs. Behavior mod token 
  economy program set up in West Virginia youth center. Mystery 
  ship Scheersberg disappears between Antwerp and Genoa with 200 
  tons of uranium believed to have been taken to Israel. 
  Astronauts circling the moon interrupted by unexplained voices. 
  Unexplained distress signals from the mid-Pacific received by 
  radio stations, no ships found during search. UFOlogists 
  Steiger, Whitenour and Keel smeared during MIB visits in UFO 
  flap area. Continental drift theory confirmed.
1969 -- Assassination of Tom Mboya of Kenya and A.A. Shermarke 
  of Somalia. Clyde Johnson, who had allegedly attended parties 
  with Ferrie, Ruby and Oswald and who was beaten up to keep him 
  from testifying at the Clay Shaw trial, shot to death near 
  Greensburg, Louisiana. Richard Carr, while visiting in Atlanta, 
  is attacked by two men with knives. Fifteen Russian generals 
  die in "unrelated" incidents within a month's time. CIA-linked 
  Professor Thomas Rika disappears from Boulder, Colorado. 
  Bilderberger meeting in Copenhagen, Denmark. First manned lunar 
  landing. Chappaquidick accident involving Edward Kennedy; Mary 
  Jo Kopechne dies. Trial of Shaw for conspiracy to assassinate 
  JFK; with Jim Garrison's witnesses dead or discredited by CIA or 
  FBI and other government agencies, Shaw was soon found not 
  guilty. Nixon issues Executive Order No. 11490 establishing 
  plans for dictatorial control in the event of a "national 
  emergency." NEW YORK TIMES reveals secret US bombing of 
  Cambodia; Nixon authorizes phone taps of Kissinger's staff to 
  discover leak. Chicago police and FBI raid Black Panthers, kill 
  Fred Hampton and Mark Clark (who were possibly drugged by 
  O'Neal); a series of earlier clashes had left other Chicago 
  Panthers dead. Black Panther leaders killed in Los Angeles by 
  the Steiner brothers, members of Karenga's United Slaves; 
  Panther headquarters raided by SWAT team. New York Panthers 
  indicted for conspiracy. CIA's Colton Westbrook returns from 
  Phoenix program in Vietnam to become involved in Black Culture 
  Association (BCA) program in California prisons. DeFreeze sent 
  to Vacaville, California prison, begins to undergo personality 
  changes. Pentagon and Department of Interior researchers study 
  methods of inducing earthquakes by injecting fluids into deep 
  wells. Alleged CIA spy Humberto Carrillo Colon arrested by Cuban 
  government which seized his Very Low Frequency transceiver and 
  coded messages describing strange lights, a minisubmarine and 
  other unexplained items. MIB "Carlos Allende" visits UFOlogists 
  Jim and Coral Lorenzen in Tucson, gives them a copy of the ONR 
  reprint of Jessup's CASE FOR THE UFO. Woodstock rock festival
  in New York state draws well over half a million.
  
           
   

�   \RBBS\DL\OUTLINE5.TXT                                                                                                     Illuminati History, Part 5
 
From Neil Wilgus' ILLUMINOIDS and other sources
 
1970 -- Assassination of union leader Joseph Yablonski and his 
  family in Pennsylvania. Attempted assassination of Pope Paul VI. 
  Reuther dies in plane crash under suspicious circumstances. 
  Bilderberger meeting in Bad Ragaz, Switzerland. US Army experts 
  complete a "mock assassination" project against the president 
  and Congress, demonstrating that determined terrorists could 
  wipe out US leaders through use of chemical of germ warfare.
  US invasion of Cambodia; Kent State killings; massive protests. 
  Nixon staffers develop the Huston Plan and "Plumbers Unit" in 
  plot to use police and intelligence agencies at all levels for 
  political purposes. Attorneys Lefcourt in New York and Gary in 
  San Francisco are subject to the first of over 100 unsolved 
  break-ins which take place over the next five years; valuables 
  untouched but sensitive political information taken. FBI/police 
  attacks on Black Panthers in Seattle, Baltimore, New Bedford, 
  Philadelphia, New Orleans, Toledo, Detroit and Carbondale. 
  Westbrook meets DeFreeze; BCA at Vacaville encourages 
  revolutionary ideas and racial hatred in inmates. Personality-
  altering Prolexin administered to 1,093 inmates at Vacaville; 
  Special Programs Unit behavior mod program begins at Joliet, 
  Illinois, under Dr. Martin Groder; Bureau of Prisons requests 
  funds for Federal Center for Correctional Research in Butner, 
  North Carolina. Approximate date of the "Korea-gate" scandal: 
  Korean CIA undertakes massive influence-peddling campaign, 50 
  congressmen accept bribes, links made with Nixon Administration 
  and the Unification Church.
1971 -- Assassination of Wasfi Tal of Jordan. Daughter of 
  conspiracy investigator Mae Brussell killed in suspicious car 
  accident. Bilderberger meeting in Woodstock, Vermont. PENTAGON 
  PAPERS published. Hunt hired by White House to gather damaging 
  evidence against Daniel Ellsberg, Edward Kennedy and other 
  "enemies"; Hunt hires Barker and other Bay of Pigs veterans to 
  make break-in at Ellsberg's psychiatrist's office. Barker 
  attempts to get plans to building which will house the 
  Democratic Convention. Plumber chief David Young, former 
  Kissinger aid, contacts CIA for psychiatric profile of Ellsberg, 
  referred to Howard Osborn, a possible Oswald link. White House 
  agent Sergretti meets with FBI, Minutemen and others to plan 
  kidnapping of radicals during the 1972 convention -- a plan 
  later scrapped. FBI begins (or continues) illegal break-ins, 
  mail-openings and wiretaps, conducted by Squad 47 of the 
  internal security division in search of Weather Underground 
  fugitives. Future SLA members Camilla Hall and William Wolfe 
  move to Berkley, become involved in radical and prison reform 
  activities. Electroshock treatments given to hundreds of inmates 
  at Vacaville. Black Panther party in shambles; Cointelpro 
  supposedly disbanded. Zimbardo's Stanford experiments 
  demonstrating dangers of prisoner/guard role-playing. 
  "Deprogrammer" Ted Patrick begins kidnapping Jesus Freaks and 
  reconverting them to conventional behavior. John Keel's OUR 
  HAUNTED PLANET discusses more MIB cases.
1972 -- Assassination of Abeid Karume of Zanzibar. Attempted 
  assassination of George Wallace in Maryland by "loner" Art 
  Bremer who had more money than he should and had alleged 
  connections with CIA-types. Warren Commission dissident Hale 
  Boggs disappears on flight to Alaska. Death of E. Howard Hunt's 
  wife Dorothy in plane crash while carrying large amount of cash 
  -- alleged murder described separately under Flight 553. Other 
  alleged murders involving secret funds include Rep. William O. 
  Mills (suicide) and his assistants Col. J. Webster and James 
  Glover; a Mr. Taub, Kalmback employee; Dennis Cossini, alleged 
  CIA contact with Bremer; Lou Russell, security cop employed by 
  McCord Associates; and Mrs. Andrew Topping, wife of man alleged 
  to be plotting assassination of Nixon during 1972 convention.
  J. Edgar Hoover dies. Bilderberger meeting in Knokke, Belgium.
  A series of dirty tricks eliminates Muskie as presidential 
  contender; Humphrey and Jackson also smeared; Nixon aides and 
  west coast Nazis cooperate in attempt to keep Wallace of 
  California ballot; Hunt ordered to break into Bremer's apartment 
  but refuses. Watergate break-in; FBI official Charles Bates 
  placed in charge of investigation. Agnew allegedly meets 
  Brienguier (Oswald's buddy) in New Orleans. Tackwood alleges 
  that plans are made to disrupt Republican convention in San 
  Diego, declare martial law, assassinate Nixon (or make false 
  attempt). ITT scandal forces Republicans to move to Miami. CIA 
  attempt to crack columnist Jack Anderson's information source 
  fails. William and Emily Harris, Angela and Gary Atwood and 
  others move to Bay area, become involved in radical and prison 
  reform activities. Thero Wheeler, another alleged police agent, 
  meets DeFreeze at Vacaville; DeFreeze moved to Soledad prison. 
  BLACK ABDUCTOR, anticipating the Hearst kidnapping, published by 
  unknown California publisher. Exposure and defeat of planned 
  psychosurgery program at Vacaville; CARE behavior mod program 
  begins at Marion, Illinois; START program begins at Springfield, 
  Missouri; Joliet unit closed. West German authorities produce a 
  skull they say was Martin Bormann's a few days after articles 
  appear with evidence he is alive in Argentina.     


Flight 553
 
Chicagoan Lawrence O'Connor, who had used United Airlines Flight 
553 or its equivalent to fly from Washington to Chicago on Friday 
nights for years was warned by a White House source not to take 
this flight; among those killed in the crash at Midway Airport, 
Chicago, were: Dorothy Hunt who was carrying $50,000 in Watergate 
payoff money and close to $2 million she was attempting to place 
in foreign banks; Michele Clark, CBS newswoman who was to 
interview Mrs. Hunt on a story that could allegedly destroy Nixon; 
at least four people alleged to have knowledge of a large labor 
union "donation" to the Committee to ReElect the President 
(CREEP), paid to stop the indictment of a Chicago labor hoodlum; 
and a group of gas pipeline lobbyists, attorneys and gas company 
officials (Robert Moreau, Nancy Parker, Ralph Blodgett, James 
Drueger, Lon Bayer, Wilbur Erickson) who had allegedly gathered 
evidence against former Attorney General John Mitchell in an anti-
trust case involving El Paso Natural Gas Co.; also aboard was a 
"hit-man" using the cover of Harold Metcalf, of Drug Abuse Law 
Enforcement, who told the pilot, Captain Whitehouse, he was 
carrying a gun and was assigned a jump seat near the food galley 
and rear door; Captain Whitehouse and six of the Watergate-related 
passengers were found to have unexplainably high cyanide content 
after the crash, though the other 35 passengers killed did not; 
following the crash hit-man Metcalf, in a jump suit, walked out 
the cracked open fuselage; up to 200 FBI and CIA agents allegedly 
took over the crash site immediately, beating the fire department 
to the scene, refusing to allow in a medical team, confiscating 
Control Tower tapes, interviewing survivors and witnesses before 
National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) investigators had a 
chance to; CBS News requested immediate cremation of Michele 
Clark's body; evidence of sabotage includes possible tampering 
with altimeter and air data computer, malfunctioning of the runway 
visual range recorder and the Kedzie localizer which acted as the 
runway's outer marker, a series of misdirections from air traffic 
controllers and the failure of Flight 553's standby power system; 
an in-flight robbery gang known as the Joseph Sarelli mob 
allegedly came into possession of some of the Hunt money and 
Mitchell documents soon after the crash and reportedly fenced it 
for $5 million; the day after the crash Nixon aide Egil Krogh, 
Jr., of Ellsberg burglary fame, appointed Undersecretary of 
Transportation and placed in charge of the two agencies 
investigating the crash (NTSB and FAA); ten days later Nixon 
assistant Alexander Butterfield, a CIA-aviation liaison, appointed 
head of Federal Aviation Administration; a few weeks later Nixon 
aide Dwight Chapin becomes top executive with United Airlines.

1973 -- Assassinations of US diplomats Cleo A. Nobel, Jr., and 
  George C. Moore and Belgian diplomat Guy Eid by Palestinian 
  guerrillas in Khartoum; Richard Sharples of Bermuda, Mohammad 
  Ali Osman of Yemen, Salvador Allende Gossens of Chile, Luis 
  Carrero Blanco of Spain and Dr. Marcus Foster in Oakland, 
  California; assassination of an American Army officer by 
  insurgent group in Iran. Senator Stennis shot in Washington, 
  D.C. Bilderberger meeting in Saltsjobaden, Sweden. Trilateral 
  Commission founded under the direction of David Rockefeller, 
  with Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale among the founding members. 
  Agnew resigns. Sidney Gottlieb, head of CIA's LSD and other drug 
  programs, destroys records to hide details of program. Kissinger 
  and his deputy General Scowcroft order a series of CIA spying 
  operations in Micronesia. Hunt beaten in his cell before 
  testifying about the Bremer connection. Durham becomes FBI 
  agent, infiltrates American Indian Movement (AIM), becomes chief 
  of security. Liberation of Wounded Knee, South Dakota, by AIM. 
  Blue Dove becomes an FBI agent. DeFreeze escapes from Soledad; 
  Wheeler escapes from Vacaville. "Race war" in Bay area 
  culminates in the killing of Dr. Foster which the SLA claims 
  credit for in its first communique. Experiments with implanting 
  electrodes in the brain carried out at Vacaville and elsewhere. 
  Behavior mod unit started at El Reno, Oklahoma, prison; START-
  type program introduced to Maryland public schools by Behavior 
  Research Institute. Sixth UFO flap year.

  
Flight 553 Revisited
 
Alex Botto, Jr., who had infiltrated the Joseph Sarelli air piracy 
gang for the Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the Courts (CCCUC), 
seized by federal marshals, taken to the federal prison hospital 
at Springfield, Missouri, and held for 40 days without hearing or 
trial; Botto and another CCCUC agent, Joseph Zale, testified to 
seeing evidence from the sabotaged United Airlines Flight 553 in 
the Sarelli mob's possessions and turned over evidence on this and 
an earlier crash robbery to Nixon's Strike Force in Chicago; just 
before the reopening of the case Zale was indicted in an alleged 
frameup by federal agencies; CCCUC chairman Sherman Skolnich 
revealed at the 553 hearings that his group had stolen the entire 
government file, 1300 pages of documentation, and was presenting 
it as evidence of foul play in the Midway Airport crash.  

